
   Pew Research Center conducted this study to better understand
   Americans' views about gender identity and people who are transgender
   or nonbinary. These findings are part of a larger project that includes
   findings from six focus groups on the experiences and views of
   transgender and nonbinary adults and estimates of the share of U.S.
   adults who say their gender is different from the sex they were
   assigned at birth.
--
   but did not obtain a degree.

   The terms "transgender" and "trans" are used interchangeably throughout
   this report to refer to people whose gender is different from the sex
   they were assigned at birth.
--
   even as growing share say gender is determined by sex at birth

   As the United States addresses issues of transgender rights and the
   broader landscape around gender identity continues to shift, the
   American public holds a complex set of views around these issues,
--

   Roughly eight-in-ten U.S. adults say there is at least some
   discrimination against transgender people in our society, and a
   majority favor laws that would protect transgender individuals from
   discrimination in jobs, housing and public spaces. At the same time,
   60% say a person's gender is determined by their sex assigned at birth,
--

   The public is divided over the extent to which our society has accepted
   people who are transgender: 38% say society has gone too far in
   accepting them, while a roughly equal share (36%) say society hasn't
   gone far enough. About one-in-four say things have been about right.
--

   The fundamental belief about whether gender can differ from sex
   assigned at birth is closely aligned with opinions on transgender
   issues. Americans who say a person's gender can be different from their
   sex at birth are more likely than others to see discrimination against
   trans people and a lack of societal acceptance. They're also more
   likely to say that our society hasn't gone far enough in accepting
   people who are transgender. But even among those who say a person's
   gender is determined by their sex at birth, there is a diversity of
   viewpoints. Half of this group say they would favor laws that protect
--
   Nonbinary U.S. adults
   Chart showing Young adults, Democrats more likely to say society hasn't
   gone far enough in accepting people who are transgender

   When it comes to issues surrounding gender identity, young adults are
--
   of those ages 30 to 49 and about a third of those 50 and older. Adults
   younger than 30 are also more likely than older adults to say society
   hasn't gone far enough in accepting people who are transgender (47% vs.
   39% of 30- to 49-year-olds and 31% of those 50 and older)

--
   vs. 13%). Democrats are also much more likely than Republicans to say
   our society hasn't gone far enough in accepting people who are
   transgender (59% vs. 10%). For their part, 66% of Republicans say
   society has gone too far in accepting people who are transgender.

   Amid a national conversation over these issues, many states are
   considering or have put in place laws or policies that would directly
   affect the lives of transgender and nonbinary people - that is, those
   who don't identify as a man or a woman. Some of these laws would limit
   protections for transgender and nonbinary people; others are aimed at
   safeguarding them. The survey finds that a majority of U.S. adults
   (64%) say they would favor laws that would protect transgender
   individuals from discrimination in jobs, housing and public spaces such
   as restaurants and stores. But there is also a fair amount of support
--

   Roughly six-in-ten adults (58%) favor proposals that would require
   transgender athletes to compete on teams that match the sex they were
   assigned at birth (17% oppose this, 24% neither favor nor oppose).^1
   And 46% favor making it illegal for health care professionals to
--
   18 get medical care for a gender transition (37% favor and 36% oppose).
   Across the board, views on these policies are deeply divided by party.
   Views of laws and policies related to transgender issues differ widely
   by party

--
   their views are what they've learned from science (40% say this has
   influenced their views a great deal or a fair amount) and knowing
   someone who is transgender (38%). Some 46% of those who say gender is
   determined by sex at birth also point to what they've learned from
   science, but this group is far more likely than those who say a
--
   Many Americans express discomfort with the pace of change around issues
   of gender identity. Some 43% say views on issues related to people who
   are transgender or nonbinary are changing too quickly, while 26% say
   things aren't changing quickly enough and 28% say the pace of change is
   about right. Adults ages 65 and older are the most likely to say views
--
   Democrats and Republicans who agree that a person's gender is
   determined by their sex at birth often have different views on
   transgender issues. A majority (61%) of Democrats - but just 31% of
   Republicans - who say a person's gender is determined by the sex they
   were assigned at birth say there is at least a fair amount of
   discrimination against transgender people in our society today. And
   while 62% of Democrats who say gender is determined by sex at birth say
   they would favor policies that protect trans individuals against
--
   the same.

   Democrats' views on some transgender issues vary by age. Among
   Democrats younger than 30, about seven-in-ten (72%) say someone can be
   a man or a woman even if that's different from the sex they were
   assigned at birth, and 66% say society hasn't gone far enough in
   accepting people who are transgender. Smaller majorities of Democrats
   30 and older express these views. Age is less of a factor among
   Republicans. In fact, similar shares of Republicans ages 18 to 29 and
   those 65 and older say a person's gender is determined by their sex at
   birth (88% each) and that society has gone too far in accepting people
   who are transgender (67% of Republicans younger than 30 and 69% of
   those 65 and older).

   About three-in-ten parents of K-12 students (29%) say at least one of
   their children has learned about people who are transgender or
   nonbinary from a teacher or another adult at their school. Similar
   shares across regions and in urban, suburban and rural areas say their
--
   This view is also more prevalent among men and Black Americans.

   A solid majority of those who do not know a transgender person say that
   whether a person is a man or a woman is determined by sex assigned at
   birth (68%), while those who do know a trans person are more evenly
--
   respectively) say gender is determined by sex at birth. Meanwhile,
   there are large differences between Democrats who do and do not know a
   transgender person. A majority of Democrats who do know a trans person
   (72%) say someone can be a man or a woman even if that differs from
   their sex assigned at birth, while those who don't know anyone who is
   transgender are about evenly split (48% say gender is determined by sex
   assigned at birth while 51% say it can be different).

--
   or a fair amount of influence. About three-in-ten (28%) point to their
   religious views and about two-in-ten (22%) say knowing someone who is
   transgender has influenced their views at least a fair amount. Smaller
   shares say what they've heard or read in the news (15%) or on social
   media (14%) has had a great deal or a fair amount of influence on their
--
   the same about their religious views. About one-in-ten point to what
   they've heard or read in the news (12%), what they've heard or read on
   social media (11%) or knowing someone who's transgender (11%).

   Among those who say someone can be a man or a woman even if that's
--
   on this topic have been influenced at least a fair amount by what
   they've learned from science. A similar share say the same about
   knowing a transgender person (38%). Smaller shares in this group say
   what they've heard or read in the news (19%) or on social media (18%)
   or their religious views (9%) have had a great deal or a fair amount of
--
   from their sex at birth are more likely than Republicans with the same
   view to say that what they've learned from science (43% vs. 26%) and
   knowing someone who is transgender (40% vs. 26%) has influenced their
   view a great deal or a fair amount.

Public sees discrimination against trans people and limited acceptance

   Roughly eight-in-ten Americans say transgender people face at least
   some discrimination, and relatively few believe our society is
   extremely or very accepting of people who are trans. These views differ
--

   Overall, 57% of adults say there is a great deal or a fair amount of
   discrimination against transgender people in our society today. An
   additional 21% say there is some discrimination against trans people,
   and 14% say there is a little or none at all.
--
   There are modest differences in views on this issue across demographic
   groups. Women (62%) are more likely than men (52%) to say there is a
   great deal or a fair amount of discrimination against transgender
   people, and college graduates (62%) are more likely than those with
   less education (55%) to say the same.
--
   people.
   Chart showing Plurality of Americans say there is little or no societal
   acceptance of transgender people

   Again, these views are strongly linked with partisanship. Democrats
   have a much more negative view than Republicans, with 54% of Democrats
   saying society is a little accepting or not at all accepting of
   transgender people, compared with a third of Republicans.

   And, as with views of discrimination, assessments of societal
--
   determined. Those who say one's gender can be different from the sex
   they were assigned at birth see less acceptance: 56% say society is a
   little accepting or not accepting at all of people who are transgender.
   This compares with 37% among those who say gender is determined by sex
   at birth. Republicans who say gender is determined by sex at birth are
   more likely than Democrats who say the same to believe that society is
   at least somewhat accepting of people who are transgender (61% vs.
   47%).

--

   While a majority of Americans see at least a fair amount of
   discrimination against transgender people and relatively few see
   widespread acceptance, 38% say our society has gone too far in
   accepting them. Some 36% say society has not gone far enough in
--
   gone too far in this regard.
   Chart showing Public is divided over whether society has gone too far
   or not far enough in accepting transgender people

   There is a wide partisan divide as well. Roughly six-in-ten Democrats
   (59%) say society hasn't gone far enough in accepting people who are
   transgender, while 15% say it has gone too far (24% say it's been about
   right). Republicans' views are almost the inverse: 10% say society
   hasn't gone far enough and 66% say it's gone too far (22% say it's been
--
   important. Even so, substantial shares of those who don't know a trans
   person view this as important. For example, 39% of those who don't know
   someone who is transgender say it's extremely or very important to
   refer to a person who goes through a gender transition and changes
   their name by their new name.
--
   Many Americans are not comfortable with the pace of change that's
   occurring around issues involving gender identity. Some 43% say views
   on issues related to people who are transgender and nonbinary are
   changing too quickly. About one-in-four (26%) say things are not
   changing quickly enough, and 28% say they are changing at about the
--

   Opinions also differ sharply by partisanship. Among Democrats, a
   plurality (42%) say views on issues involving transgender and nonbinary
   people are not changing fast enough, and 21% say they are changing too
   quickly. About a third (35%) say the speed is about right. By contrast,
--
   Respondents were asked in an open-ended format why they think views are
   changing too quickly or not quickly enough, when it comes to issues
   surrounding transgender and nonbinary people. For those who say things
   are changing too quickly, responses fell into several different
   categories. Some indicated that new ways of thinking about gender were
--

In their own words: Why do some people think views on issues related to
transgender people and those who don't identify as a man or a woman are
changing too quickly?

--

In their own words: Why do some people think views on issues related to
transgender people and those who don't identify as a man or a woman are
changing too slowly?

--
   "Protections for basic rights to self-determination in identity, health
   care choices, privacy, and consensual relationships should be a bare
   minimum that our society can provide for everyone - transgender people
   included."

--
   "Acceptance is not changing quick enough. There remains discrimination
   and elected officials are passing laws that make it more difficult for
   transgender individuals in society to live, work and exist."

   "We are going backwards with all the anti-gay & -trans legislation that
--

   "The spate of laws being proposed that would take away the rights of
   transgender people is evidence that we're a long way from treating them
   right."

--

Most say they're not paying close attention to news about bills related to
transgender people

   Chart showing Liberal Democrats are more likely than other groups to be
--

   Many states are considering legislation related to people who are
   transgender, but a relatively small share of U.S. adults (8%) say
   they're following news about these bills extremely or very closely.
   Another 24% say they're following this somewhat closely, while about
--
   Only about one-in-ten or less across age, racial and ethnic groups, and
   across levels of educational attainment, say they are following news
   about bills related to people who are transgender extremely or very
   closely. Six-in-ten or more across demographic groups say they're
   following news about these bills a little closely or not closely at
--
   Liberal Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents (46%) are more
   likely than moderate and conservative Democrats (29%) to say they are
   following news about state bills related to people who are transgender
   at least somewhat closely. Conservative Republicans and Republican
   leaners (31%) are more likely than their moderate and liberal
--
   about this a little or not at all closely.

About six-in-ten would favor requiring that transgender athletes compete on
teams that match their sex at birth

   The survey asked respondents how they feel about some current laws and
   policies that are either in place or being considered across the U.S.
   related to transgender issues. Only two of seven items are either
   endorsed or rejected by a majority: 64% say they would favor policies
   that protect transgender individuals from discrimination in jobs,
   housing, and public spaces such as restaurants and stores, and 58% say
   they would favor policies that require that transgender athletes
   compete on teams that match the sex they were assigned at birth rather
   than the gender they identify with.
   Chart showing Most Americans say they would favor laws that would
   protect transgender people from discrimination in jobs, housing and
   public spaces

--
   items. Some 46% say they would favor making it illegal for health care
   professionals to provide someone younger than 18 with medical care for
   gender transitions, and 41% would favor requiring transgender
   individuals to use public bathrooms that match the sex they were
   assigned at birth rather than the gender they identify with; 31% say
--
   these policies.

Views on many policies related to transgender issues vary by age, party, and
race and ethnicity

   Majorities of U.S. adults across age groups express support for laws
   and policies that would protect transgender individuals from
   discrimination in jobs, housing, and public spaces such as restaurants
   and stores. About seven-in-ten adults ages 18 to 29 (70%) and 30 to 49
--
   older age groups). They're also less likely than older adults to
   express support for bills and policies that would restrict the rights
   of people who are transgender or limit what schools teach about gender
   identity. On most items, those ages 50 to 64 and those 65 and older
   express similar views.
   Chart showing Views of laws and policies related to transgender issues
   differ by age

--
   medical care for a gender transition (72% vs. 26%); make it illegal for
   public school districts to teach about gender identity in elementary
   schools (69% vs. 18%); require transgender individuals to use public
   bathrooms that match the sex they were assigned at birth (67% vs. 20%);
   and investigate parents for child abuse if they help someone younger
--
   Overall, White adults tend to be more likely than Black, Hispanic and
   Asian adults to express support for laws and policies that would
   restrict the rights of transgender people or limit what schools can
   teach about gender identity. But among Democrats, White adults are
   often less likely than other groups to favor such laws and policies,
--
   orientation or gender identity in schools. The survey asked parents of
   K-12 students whether any of their children have learned about people
   who are transgender or who don't identify as a boy or a girl from a
   teacher or another adult at their school and how they feel about the
   fact that their children have or have not learned about this.

   Some 37% of parents with children in middle or high school say their
   middle or high schoolers have learned about people who are transgender
   or who don't identify as a boy or a girl from a teacher or another
   adult at their school; a much smaller share of parents of elementary
--
   (27%) and rural (32%) areas - and in the Northeast (34%), Midwest
   (33%), South (26%) and West (28%) - say their school-age children have
   learned about people who are transgender or who don't identify as a boy
   or a girl. And Republican (27%) and Democratic (31%) parents are also
   about equally likely to say their children have learned about this in
--

   Many parents of K-12 students don't think it's good for their children
   to learn about people who are transgender or nonbinary from their
   teachers or other adults at school. Among parents of elementary school
   students, 45% either say their children have learned about people who
--
   about this. And about four-in-ten (41%) say it's neither good nor bad
   that their elementary school children have or haven't learned about
   people who are transgender or nonbinary.

   Among parents with children in middle or high school, 34% say it's a
--
   trans peoplePlurality of adults say views on gender identity issues are
   changing too quicklyMost say they're not paying close attention to news
   about bills related to transgender people About six-in-ten would favor
   requiring that transgender athletes compete on teams that match their
   sex at birthViews on many policies related to transgender issues vary
   by age, party, and race and ethnicity Sizable shares say forms and
   government documents should include options other than `male' and
--
   short read | Feb 11, 2022

Deep partisan divide on whether greater acceptance of transgender people is
good for society

