
   People whose gender identity or expression does not conform to the sex
   they were assigned at birth are transgender. While individuals may be
   assigned to a sex at birth based on how they present biologically,
   their sense of their gender may differ. A trans man is a man who was
--
   pronouns, are often referred to as transitioning, or as gender
   affirmation, although the term gender reassignment is used by some.
   (Cross-dressers, distinct from transgender individuals, generally
   identify with the gender label they receive at birth but often wear
   clothing associated with a different gender.)
--
   genderqueer. Others living outside of these binary constructs may
   identify as nonbinary, gender-nonconforming or third gender. These
   individuals may or may not also identify as transgender.

Contents
--

   Any person who identifies differently from the gender they were
   assigned at birth is transgender. There is no single source of
   transgender identity. Biological and genetic factors may play a role
   before a person is born, but personal experiences, in childhood,
   adolescence, or beyond, may also contribute to one's gender identity,
--

   The Williams Institute at the UCLA School of Law estimates that there
   are 1.4 million adults in the U.S. who identify as transgender,
   representing 0.7 percent of people between ages 18 and 24 and 0.5
   percent of those older than 65. Other experts believe the actual number
   of trans Americans may be closer to 2 million. The Williams Institute
   also estimates that 150,000 U.S. residents between ages 13 and 17 are
   transgender.
   What is gender dysphoria?
   (BUTTON)
   Created with Sketch.

   Beginning as early as childhood, a transgender person may have
   feelings of disconnection between their primary and secondary sex
   traits and designated gender and the gender with which they identify.
--
   according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
   (DSM-5), may receive a diagnosis of gender dysphoria. It's a diagnosis
   that has been widely debated in the psychological and transgender
   communities because many see it as unnecessarily pathologizing of trans
   people, although getting a diagnosis can help some individuals access
--

   While some children who experience such feelings do not go on to
   identify as transgender in adulthood, long-standing gender dysphoria is
   a common experience among adults who do identify as transgender.

   For more, see Gender Dysphoria.


   Does a person have to transition their gender to be transgender?
   (BUTTON)
   Created with Sketch.
--
   process, one that begins not with medical procedures but with
   expressing one's identity, to themselves and to others with whom they
   feel safe. Reaching out to transgender community groups, or meeting
   with a mental health professional who provides affirmative care for
   transgender people are often among the first steps in the process.

   Different individuals follow different paths to gender affirmation:
--
   cisgender population. For example, in one recent study, less than 3
   percent of heterosexual cisgender people said they would consider
   dating a trans individual, while 12 percent of nontransgender gay men,
   29 percent of nontransgender lesbians, and slightly more than half of
   people who identified as bisexual, queer, or nonbinary, reported that
   they would.
   Is being transgender a mental health disorder?
   (BUTTON)
   Created with Sketch.
--

   Hate crimes have been frequently perpetuated against members of the
   transgender community. A majority of trans people report having
   experienced intimate partner violence, and nearly half report having
   been sexually assaulted, according to research by advocacy group Human
--
   community.

   Research suggests that as many as two-thirds of transgender adolescents
   have had suicidal thoughts, as compared to 13 percent of other teens.
   But the presence of supportive others in a young transgender person's
   life, especially parents, can make a significant difference: For
   example, 64 percent of transgender teens who felt supported by parents
   reported having high self-esteem, as opposed to just 13 percent of
   those who did not.
   How do people come to understand that they are transgender?
   (BUTTON)
   Created with Sketch.

   People can become aware of their transgender identity at any age. Some
   become conscious of their identity as young children, and many who
   become aware of it in adolescence or adulthood can look back at early
--
   to which they were assigned at birth.

   Many transgender individuals experience not just a sense of discomfort
   but intense dissatisfaction with their assigned sex or sexual
   characteristics, or the roles they are expected to play as presumed
--
   "Rapid-onset" gender dysphoria is a discredited term used by some to
   describe the apparent phenomenon of young people declaring themselves
   to be transgender all of a sudden, suggesting that these individuals
   have been influenced by social media, popular culture, or even peer
   pressure. The term has been used by some to explain the increased
   numbers of transgender youth in recent years, particularly in
   communities where the numbers seem to be unexpectedly high.

--
   youth were studied to formulate the paper's conclusions. While the
   theory has gained traction in some circles and continues to be used to
   question the sincerity of some transgender youth, the journal that
   published the paper has published a correction, stating, "Rapid-onset
   gender dysphoria is not a formal mental health diagnosis at this time.
--

   When conservative adults learn of a young person in their family
   questioning their gender or coming out as transgender or non-binary, it
   can be hard to know which steps to take.

   When conservative adults learn of a young person in their family
   questioning their gender or coming out as transgender or non-binary, it
   can be hard to know which steps to take.

