   Health Wellness and Prevention

   Two transgender people laughing

   Two transgender people laughing

   Two transgender people laughing

Transgender Health: What You Need to Know
--
   LGBTQ Health Gender Affirmation

   The following health concerns are relevant to many transgender and
   gender-expansive people (sometimes called gender non-binary or gender
   diverse). While these issues may not apply to everyone, they are
--
Barriers to Health Care

   Some transgender people may not consult health care services because
   they have had negative experiences with doctors in the past. For that
   reason, organizations such as theWorld Professional Association for
   Transgender Health (WPATH)have created resources to help transgender
   people find knowledgeable, supportive, caring and compassionate
   providers in their communities.
--
   victims may be hesitant to seek help because they fear discrimination
   from law enforcement and health care providers. Sadly, not all intimate
   partner violence resources accommodate transgender and gender-expansive
   people, but specific assistance is available in certain areas.

Workplace Discrimination

   Twenty-six percent of transgender and gender-expansive adults report
   being fired because of their identity. Because gender diverse people
   face such extreme job discrimination, some may turn to sex work as a
--
   care to improve health and enhance wellness; educates interdisciplinary
   health care professionals to provide culturally competent,
   evidence-based care; informs the public on transgender health issues;
   and advances medical knowledge by conducting biomedical research.
   More about the Center for Transgender and Gender Expansive Health
--
Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs)

   Some transgender people are at greater risk for certainSTIs. Aside from
   abstinence, the best method to prevent STIs is to use barriers, such as
   external condoms, internal condoms or dental dams, with every sexual
--
   partners to use condoms -- especially if sex work is involved or if the
   partner is violent. Barrier methods play an enormous role in STI
   prevention, so it is important for transgender and gender-expansive
   people to feel empowered to make safe sex decisions. There are a few
   sexually transmitted infections you should be aware of:
--
   permanent or chronic damage to the liver, resulting in liver cancer.

   Vaccines to prevent hepatitis A and B are available, and transgender
   people should discuss them with their health care provider to ensure
   initial vaccinations and booster shots are received.
--

   This glossary serves as an introduction to the appropriate language
   used when talking about transgender health.
   Visit the glossary of transgender terms
   (BUTTON) Find a Doctor

--
       talking Otolaryngology (ENT)
       Transgender and Gender-Diverse Voice Care
     * A transgender woman in a hospital gown having a conversation with a
       doctor, a transgender man. Gender Affirmation
       Gender Affirmation Surgeries

