
   At the same time, several states have enacted or are considering
   legislation that would limit the rights of transgender and nonbinary
   people. These include bills requiring people to use public bathrooms
   that correspond with the sex they were assigned at birth, prohibiting
--

   A new Pew Research Center survey finds that 1.6% of U.S. adults are
   transgender or nonbinary - that is, their gender is different from the
   sex they were assigned at birth. This includes people who describe
   themselves as a man, a woman or nonbinary, or who use terms such as
   gender fluid or agender to describe their gender. While relatively few
   U.S. adults are transgender, a growing share say they know someone who
   is (44% today vs. 37% in 2017). One-in-five say they know someone who
   doesn't identify as a man or woman.

   In order to better understand the experiences of transgender and
   nonbinary adults at a time when gender identity is at the center of
   many national debates, Pew Research Center conducted a series of focus
--
   a larger study that includes a survey of the general public on their
   attitudes about gender identity and issues related to people who are
   transgender or nonbinary.
   Terminology
   (BUTTON)

   The terms transgender and trans are used interchangeably throughout
   this essay to refer to people whose gender is different from the sex
   they were assigned at birth. This includes, but is not limited to,
   transgender men (that is, men who were assigned female at birth) and
   transgender women (women who were assigned male at birth).

   Nonbinary adults are defined here as those who are neither a man nor a
--
   said the term "nonbinary" describes their gender in the screening
   questionnaire. Some, but not all, nonbinary participants also consider
   themselves to be transgender.

   References to gender transitions relate to the process through which
--

   Cisgender is used to describe people whose gender matches the sex they
   were assigned at birth and who do not identify as transgender or
   nonbinary.

--
   access to health care and medical transitions.

   The acronym LGBTQ+ refers to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer
   (or, in some cases, questioning), and other sexual orientations or
   gender identities that are not straight or cisgender, such as intersex,
--

   Pew Research Center conducted this research to better understand the
   experiences and views of transgender and nonbinary U.S. adults. Because
   transgender and nonbinary people make up only about 1.6% of the adult
   U.S. population, this is a difficult population to reach with a
   probability-based, nationally representative survey. As an alternative,
--
   8-10, 2022. Participants were recruited by targeted email outreach
   among a panel of adults who had previously said on a survey that they
   were transgender or nonbinary, as well as via connections through
   professional networks and LGBTQ+ organizations, followed by a screening
   call. Candidates were eligible if they met the technology requirements
   to participate in an online focus group and if they either said they
   consider themselves to be transgender or if they said their gender was
   nonbinary or another identity other than man or woman (regardless of
   whether or not they also said they were transgender). For more details,
   see the Methodology.

--
   and nonbinary adults (with either a nonbinary moderator or a trans man
   moderator). All of the moderators had extensive experience facilitating
   groups, including with transgender and nonbinary participants.

   The participants were a mix of ages, races/ethnicities, and were from
--
   population of trans and nonbinary U.S. adults, but the participants'
   stories provide a glimpse into some of the experiences of people who
   are transgender and/or nonbinary. The groups included a total of 27
   transgender and nonbinary adults from around the U.S. and ranging in
   age from late teens to mid-60s. Most currently live in an urban area,
   but about half said they grew up in a suburb. The groups included a mix
--
   to describe their gender. For those focus group participants, the path
   to self-discovery varied. Some described meeting someone who was
   transgender and relating to their experience; others described learning
   about people who are trans or nonbinary in college classes or by doing
   their own research.
--
   groups, often to describe anyone who is not straight or cisgender. Some
   trans men and women preferred just the terms "man" or "woman," while
   some identified strongly with the term "transgender." The graphic below
   shows just some of the words the participants used to describe their
   gender.
--
   circumstance. Others said they don't feel like they are either a man or
   a woman, or that they don't have a gender at all. Some, but not all,
   also identified with the term transgender.

   "I had days where I would go out and just play with the boys and be one
--
   Some participants spoke about how their gender interacted with other
   aspects of their identity, such as their race, culture and
   religion. For some, being transgender or nonbinary can be at odds with
   other parts of their identity or background.

--
   humiliation, and even violence. These experiences ranged from
   employment discrimination to being outed (that is, someone else
   disclosing the fact that they are transgender or nonbinary without
   their permission) without their permission to physical attacks.

--

   The discussions also touched on whether the participants feel a
   connection with a broader lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and
   queer (LGBTQ+) community or with other people who are LGBTQ+. Views
   varied, with some saying they feel an immediate connection with other
--
   gender identity as a barrier to full acceptance. There was a sense
   among some participants that cisgender people who are lesbian, gay or
   bisexual don't always accept people who are transgender or nonbinary.

   "I would really like to be included in the [LGBTQ+] community. But I
--
   man in a social setting, even though I'm heterosexual. ... But the
   minute that that person found out that I wasn't a gay man ... and that
   I was actually a transgender person, they became cold and just
   distancing themselves. And I've been in a lot of those types of
   circumstances where there's that divide between the rest of the
--

   When asked to name the most important policy or political issues facing
   transgender and nonbinary people in the United States today, many
   participants named basic needs such as housing, employment, and health
   care. Others cited recent legislation or policies related to people who
   are transgender that have made national news.

   "Housing is a huge issue. Health care might be good in New York, it
--

   Participants had different takes on what gets in the way of progress on
   issues facing transgender and nonbinary people. Some pointed to the
   lack of knowledge surrounding the history of these issues or not
   knowing someone who is transgender or nonbinary. Others mentioned
   misconceptions people might have about transgender and nonbinary people
   that influence their political and policy perspectives.

--
   society have already changed and progress that has been made. For
   example, some mentioned greater representation and visibility of
   transgender and nonbinary people in entertainment and other industries,
   while others focused on changing societal views as things that give
   them hope for the future.
--
   For many, young people are a source of hope. Several participants
   talked about younger generations being more accepting of those who are
   transgender or nonbinary and also being more accepted by their families
   if they themselves are trans or nonbinary.

