   Background. Transgender individuals have a gender identity that differs
   from the sex they were assigned at birth. The population size of
   transgender individuals in the United States is not well-known, in part
   because official records, including the US Census, do not include data
   on gender identity. Population surveys today more often collect
   transgender-inclusive gender-identity data, and secular trends in
   culture and the media have created a somewhat more favorable
   environment for transgender people.

   Objectives. To estimate the current population size of transgender
   individuals in the United States and evaluate any trend over time.

--

   Selection criteria. We selected population-based surveys that used
   probability sampling and included self-reported transgender-identity
   data.

   Data collection and analysis. We used random-effects meta-analysis to
   pool eligible surveys and used meta-regression to address our
   hypothesis that the transgender population size estimate would increase
   over time. We used subsample and leave-one-out analysis to assess for
   bias.
--

   Authors' conclusions. Future national surveys are likely to observe
   higher numbers of transgender people. The large variety in questions
   used to ask about transgender identity may account for residual
   heterogeneity in our models.

   Public health implications. Under- or nonrepresentation of transgender
   individuals in population surveys is a barrier to understanding social
   determinants and health disparities faced by this population. We
   recommend using standardized questions to identify respondents with
   transgender and nonbinary gender identities, which will allow a more
   accurate population size estimate.

--

   We used data from national surveys to estimate the population size of
   transgender people in the United States. Estimates of the number of
   transgender adults significantly increased over the past decade, with a
   current best estimate of 390 per 100 000 adults. That is about 1 in
   every 250 adults, or almost 1 million Americans. These numbers may be
   more typical of younger adults than of the entire US population. We
   expect that future surveys will find higher numbers of transgender
   people and recommend that standardized questions be used, which will
   allow a more accurate population size estimate.
--

   Transgender individuals have a gender identity that differs from the
   sex they were assigned at birth.^1 Research has shown that transgender
   individuals around the world and in the United States are exposed to
   widespread social stigma, discrimination, harassment, and physical and
   sexual abuse.^2,3 Compared with the general population, a national
   survey conducted in the United States in 2008 found that transgender
   individuals were 4 times more likely to live in extreme poverty, had
   double the rate of unemployment, and had almost double the rate of
   being homeless.^4 In terms of health, transgender individuals had 4
   times the rate of being HIV-infected and 28% postponed medical care
   because of discrimination. Particularly alarming is that 41% of survey
   respondents reported at least 1 suicide attempt. A barrier to
   understanding social determinants and health disparities faced by
   transgender people is the under- or nonrepresentation in a range of
   demographic and health-monitoring activities,^5 which may result from a
   lack of transgender-inclusive data collection with regard to gender
   identity.

   Accurate representation of the transgender population is complicated by
   the diversity within the community with regard to language and
   subcultures.^6,7 Moreover, the clinical literature has long conflated
   transgender identity with homosexuality.^8,9 Although a relationship
   between gender identity and sexual orientation may exist, the American
   Psychological Association (APA) recognizes that "Transgender people,
   like cis-gender people, may be sexually oriented toward men, women,
   both sexes, or neither sex. . . ."^10,11 Current best practice for
   collecting transgender-inclusive gender identity data is the 2-step
   method, which has been shown to optimize accurate identification of
   transgender people in a population.^12 This method records current
   gender identity as well as the sex assigned at birth; transgender
   people are those who identify as such and those whose current gender
   identity and sex assigned at birth differ.^13 This method allows the
   capture of people who identify with a binary gender (male or female),
   such as a transgender man who identifies only as male,^14 as well as
   others who may be considered transgender from a demographic
   perspective, even if they do not identify with the term "transgender,"
   such as people who identify as genderqueer, agender, or having no
   gender.^15,16
--
   do not report current gender identity. They are also not able to record
   whether the legal sex differs from the sex assigned at birth. As a
   result, at the most basic level, the population size of transgender
   individuals in the United States is not well-known.

   On the basis of a limited number of sources in 2009, the APA estimated
   the number of transgender individuals in the United States at 115 000
   to 450 000, or 38 to 147 per 100 000 by using US Census data for that
   year's total population size.^11 The value of these numbers is limited,
   as the lower limit was based on members of a lesbian, gay, bisexual,
   and transgender (LGBT) Web site who identified as transgender, which is
   unlikely to be representative of the US general population, and the
   upper limit was based on an older and in part nonprobability sample of
   North Americans,^17 which may not reflect current numbers in the United
   States. More recent US population-based surveys have reported
   transgender population sizes that are higher, ranging from 153 to 1647
   per 100 000.^18 These estimates may not generalize to the United States
   as a whole, as they were based on data collected in Massachusetts
--
   the best current estimate is provided by Flores et al. who estimated
   that 0.6% of US adults, approximately 560 per 100 000, identify as
   transgender.^21 They used data from the Behavioral Risk Factor
   Surveillance System (BRFSS), which is administered annually to randomly
   selected adults across the United States.

   Because contemporary surveys more often collect transgender-inclusive
   gender-identity data, and secular trends in culture and the media have
   created a somewhat more favorable environment for transgender people,
   it is possible that the measured size of the transgender population has
   increased over time, rendering previous reports of population size even
   less applicable today. The primary aim of this study was to estimate
   the number of transgender individuals in the United States by
   performing a meta-analysis of population-based national surveys. A
   secondary aim was to evaluate for any trend over time. We hypothesized
   that the estimates of transgender population size would increase over
   time. Knowledge of the transgender population size can support the
   development of social policy that aims to protect transgender
   individuals against stigma and discrimination. From a health
   perspective, knowledge of the size of the transgender population can
   inform the development of health care programs to benefit transgender
   people, as well as inform insurance companies on how to best provide
   coverage for such care.
--
   Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, and Web of Science. The
   search was limited to 2006 to 2016, as older surveys are unlikely to
   contain transgender-inclusive gender-identity data. Eligible surveys
   were population-based and nonclinical, as recommended by Deutsch,^18
   and collected data on transgender identity in probability samples. The
   search combined the terms "national" and "survey" in titles or
   abstracts with "gender identity" anywhere in the publication and was
--
   performed this search with the Google search engine between June 1 and
   13, 2016. We included the search term "health" to narrow these Internet
   search results, assuming that surveys with transgender-inclusive
   gender-identity data would most likely be health-related.

--
   on national samples (e.g., surveys covering state, county, or cities
   only), and reviews and meta-analyses of multiple surveys. We further
   excluded surveys that did not specifically report transgender
   identities (e.g., surveys that reported counts for "another gender" or
   counts for a response option that combined "transgender" and "other").
   We collected gender-identity data for each unique survey located
   through either the Internet search or search in traditional scientific
--
   We completed an investigator-developed data extraction form for each
   eligible survey with data on survey year, population, sampling design,
   question(s) used to assess transgender identity, and the total sample
   size and number who self-reported as transgender. The first author
   extracted and double-checked all data.

   We conducted random-effects meta-analyses based on the proportion of
   transgender individuals. Pooling of multiple survey samples, including
   multiple waves for recurring surveys, has been used before to estimate
   population size in gender and sexual minorities.^22,23 Random-effects
--
   2016 wave of the National College Health Assessment (NCHA) collected
   data on gender identities not captured by the terms male, female, or
   transgender (e.g., genderqueer, gender-nonconforming), and that only
   the 2014 wave of the National Adult Tobacco Survey (NATS) and the 2016
   NCHA inquired after sex assigned at birth.^27-30
--
   and state and federal prisons Gender identity
   Open in a separate window
   ^a154 endorsed "not male, female, or transgender."
   ^b116 endorsed "not male, female, or transgender."
   ^c233 with a different sex assigned at birth not included in
   self-identified transgender number.
   ^d1243 with a different sex assigned at birth not included in
   self-identified transgender number.

Survey Questions

   Questions used to collect data on transgender identity varied greatly.
   A majority of surveys (n = 13 or 65%) asked about being transgender in
   the context of gender identity, in accordance with current
   understanding that transgender is a gender identity that is different
   from a person's sex assigned at birth.^1 These surveys included the
   2014 and 2015 BRFSS,^27,28 the NCHA starting with the 2009 wave of data
   collection,^30-37 and the National Inmate Survey.^38-42 The remaining
   surveys (n = 7 or 35%) offered "transgender" as a response option in
   the context of sexual-orientation questions. These surveys included the
   2013 NHIS,^43 the NATS,^29,44,45 and the NCHA before the 2009 wave of
   data collection.^46-48 Although transgender as sexual orientation does
   not reflect current understanding of transgender as a gender identity,
   and sexual orientation and gender identity are distinct
   phenomena,^8,11,14 we conducted separate meta-analyses for
   "transgender" collected as gender identity and "transgender" as sexual
   orientation for the sake of comparison.

   Questions that probed gender identity included "Do you consider
   yourself to be transgender?"; "Do you identify as transgender?"; "Are
   you male, female, or transgender?"; and "What is your gender?" In
   addition to male or female gender options, response options included
   "transgender"^31,38 and "male-to-female," "female-to-male," and
   "gender-nonconforming."^27 Sexual-orientation questions with
   transgender response options included "Which of the following best
   describes you?"; "Which of the following best represents how you think
   of yourself?"; and "Do you consider yourself to be. . . ?" or "Do you
   think of yourself as. . .?" Response options included "transgender,"^45
   "transgendered,"^46 and "You are transgender, transsexual, or gender
   variant."^29,43

Transgender Population Size

   The estimated proportion of transgender individuals based on surveys
   that categorized transgender as gender identity was 0.39% (95%
   confidence interval [CI] = 0.16, 0.62; I^2 = 99.8%; k = 13). In terms
   of overall sample proportion, college and university students
--
   effect of including recurring surveys, we reanalyzed the data while
   including only the latest wave and leaving out the 2016 NCHA as a
   potential outlier. The estimated proportion of transgender individuals
   when we used this reduced data set spanning 2012 to 2015 was 0.35% (95%
   CI = 0.24, 0.46; I^2 = 96.8%; k = 3). The 2014 NATS and the 2016 NCHA
--

   To test the hypothesis for changes over time, we conducted a
   meta-regression with the estimated proportion of transgender
   individuals as a dependent variable for surveys that categorized
   transgender as gender identity, but leaving out the 2016 NCHA as a
   potential outlier. A meta-regression model that included the year of
   the survey as predictor, centered with respect to 2007, explained 62.5%
--
   lines indicate the 95% confidence interval about the regression line.

   The estimated proportion of transgender individuals based on surveys
   that categorized transgender as sexual orientation was 0.06% (95% CI =
   0.03, 0.09; I^2 = 96.6%; k = 7). It should be noted that presenting
   transgender in the context of sexual orientation does not reflect our
   current understanding of what it means to be transgender. We include
   these data for comparison only and doing so should not be taken as
   validation that presenting transgender as a sexual orientation is in
   any way appropriate. Leave-one-out analysis showed no disproportionate
   effect of single surveys. A direct comparison of estimates showed that
   the proportion for transgender categorized as sexual orientation was
   significantly lower than the overall proportion for transgender
   categorized as gender identity (0.06% vs 0.28%; t = 7.317; P < .001,
   corrected for unequal variances).
--

   Our meta-regression of US population-based surveys indicated a
   substantial annual increase in the number of transgender adults in the
   United States. As a consequence, meta-analyses that pool data across
   several years, including our own, will likely underestimate their
   numbers. A conservative estimate extrapolating our meta-regression
   results, while excluding the latest NCHA wave of data as a potential
   outlier, suggests that the proportion of transgender adults in the
   United States is 0.39%, or 390 per 100 000, and almost 1 million adults
   nationally. It should be noted that this estimate may be more
   indicative for younger adults and that national surveys in the near
   future may observe higher numbers of transgender people. We speculate
   that the observed annual increase is not an increase of the true
   population size, but the result of people feeling freer to report that
   they are or identify as transgender. This may result from societal
   changes, such as increased public visibility, awareness, and acceptance
   of transgender individuals.^49 The fact that US society is more aware
   of transgender issues is also reflected in public interest in the
   search term "transgender," which, according to Google Trends, has
   steadily increased since 2011. PubMed results for the number of
   publications found with the search term "transgender" show a similar
   phenomenon, with relatively small increases since 2005, but large
   increases in the number of publications since 2011.
--
   is not straightforward because, even within a single country,
   differences in social acceptance affect the number of individuals who
   are willing to self-report a transgender identity.^50 This is why we
   based our analysis on US national samples only. Our estimate of 0.39%
   is not quite as high as the 1% that was posited on the basis of a
--
"Transgender" as a Label

   The label "transgender" is often used as an umbrella term, but does not
   fully capture the larger gender-nonconforming or gender-variant
   population, as surveys in our analysis illustrated. In both waves of
   the BRFSS included in our analysis, more than 20% of respondents
   endorsed "gender-nonconforming." Other surveys that were not eligible
   for our analysis showed an even starker contrast between "transgender"
   and other nonbinary options. In a recent national nonprobability
   sample, the number of respondents who endorsed "genderqueer or gender
   nonconforming" was about 1.5 times the number who endorsed
   "transgender."^53 In the 2013 and 2015 Minnesota College Student Health
   Survey, twice as many respondents endorsed "genderqueer" or "another
   gender" than "transgender."^54,55

   Other surveys that were not included in our analysis because they
--
   proportion of respondents who endorsed other gender options. For
   example, 6th- to 12th-grade students in a national sample endorsed
   "genderqueer" more often than "transgender," and the number who
   endorsed "another gender" was almost half of those who endorsed
   "transgender."^15 In a national survey of LGBT individuals in science,
   technology, engineering, and mathematics, again, more endorsed
   "genderqueer" than "transgender," whereas the number who endorsed
   "androgynous" was slightly more than half of those who endorsed
   "transgender."^16

   Also, not all transgender people identify with the term "transgender"
   (e.g., a transgender woman who identifies as female only).^14,56 As
   such, surveys that include "transgender" as the only option other than
   male or female are likely to underestimate the population size under
   the transgender umbrella. The available evidence suggests that the size
   of the gender-nonconforming or gender-variant population may be twice
   as large as our best estimate for the transgender population size.

   According to our analysis, surveys that considered transgender a sexual
   orientation resulted in at least a 4-fold underestimate of the number
   of transgender individuals. This underestimate should not come as a
   surprise, because transgender as sexual orientation does not reflect
   current understanding of transgender as gender identity.^11,14 It is
   striking, therefore, that national surveys such as the NHIS and NATS,
   and state surveys such as the Illinois and Idaho BRFSS,^57,58 until
   recent years, have categorized transgender as a sexual orientation
   rather than a gender identity. This practice misrepresents the number
   of transgender people in the United States and sustains misconceptions
   about what it means to be transgender. Of note, as of 2015, the NHIS no
   longer lists transgender as an option under sexual orientation.

Strengths and Limitations

   Several considerations should be made when one is interpreting the
   results of our study. First, transgender people differ greatly and not
   all transgender individuals desire or have the resources to seek
   surgeries, hormone therapy, or change their name or sex designation on
   legal documents.^1 We believe that our analysis based on self-reported
   data provides a more accurate estimate of the number of transgender
   individuals than estimates based on characteristics that represent
   subsamples of the transgender population only (e.g., only those who
   seek surgery).

--
   population-size estimate was based reported on younger adults (college
   and university students), and research has shown that individuals aged
   18 to 24 years are more likely to identify as transgender.^21 Also, the
   incarceration rate among transgender individuals is disproportionally
   high,^4 especially among transgender women, and as such they may be
   overrepresented in samples drawn from the inmate population, which
   represented 20% of respondents in our analyses. Both aspects may lead
--
   suggested that the number of adults whose sex assigned at birth differs
   from their current gender identity could be as large as our current
   estimate of the transgender population size. As such, our analysis may
   not have captured all individuals who are considered transgender from a
   demographic perspective, but who do not identify explicitly with the
   term "transgender." How the sum of these factors that may have affected
   our estimate ultimately add up is a complex question that perhaps can
   be answered when more accurate general population data become
   available. Also, survey errors with respect to data recording, although
   they are expected to be small, may have affected our estimate,
   especially because the base rate of the transgender population is
   small.

--
   heterogeneity, which can potentially be explained by differences in
   respondent characteristics (e.g., general population, students,
   inmates) and the types of questions used to assess transgender
   identity.^59 For example, the 2015 wave of the NCHA asked about
   respondents' gender with 0.45% endorsing transgender, whereas
   respondents in the 2016 wave were asked whether they identified as
   transgender (1.8% responded yes). The small number of surveys in our
   analysis did not allow for testing more than 1 model predictor.

Conclusions

   We aimed to estimate the current transgender population size in the
   United States. On the basis of our analysis of national probability
   samples, 390 per 100 000 adults are estimated to be transgender in
   2016, but the evidence suggests that future surveys will likely observe
   higher numbers. Our analysis also found that surveys use a variety of
   questions to ask about transgender identity and may still miscategorize
   transgender as a sexual orientation. This categorization does not
   reflect current understanding of transgender as a gender identity, and
   we recommend using standardized questions to identify respondents with
   transgender and nonbinary gender identities in future population
   surveys. Best practices regarding questions that can be used for
   transgender-inclusive data collection have already been published.^13

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
--

   1. Coleman E, Bockting W, Botzer M et al. Standards of care for the
   health of transsexual, transgender, and gender-nonconforming people,
   version 7. Int J Transgenderism. 2012;13(4):165-232. [Google Scholar]
   2. White Hughto JM, Reisner SL, Pachankis JE. Transgender stigma and
--
   5. Bauer GR, Hammond R, Travers R, Kaay M, Hohenadel KM, Boyce M. "I
   don't think this is theoretical; this is our lives": how erasure
   impacts health care for transgender people. J Assoc Nurses AIDS Care.
   2009;20(5):348-361. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
   6. Haas AP, Eliason M, Mays VM et al. Suicide and suicide risk in
   lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender populations: review and
   recommendations. J Homosex. 2011;58(1):10-51. [PMC free article]
   [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
   7. American Psychological Association. Guidelines for psychological
   practice with transgender and gender nonconforming people. Am Psychol.
   2015;70(9):832-864. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
   8. Drescher J. Queer diagnoses: parallels and contrasts in the history
--
   http://williamsinstitute.law.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/geniuss-report
   -sep-2014.pdf. Accessed August 13, 2015.
   14. Meier SC, Labuski CM. The demographics of the transgender
   population. In: Baumle AK, editor. International Handbook on the
   Demography of Sexuality. Vol 5. International Handbooks of Population.
--
   15. Kosciw JG, Greytak EA, Palmer NA, Boesen MJ. The 2013 National
   School Climate Survey: the experiences of lesbian, gay, bisexual and
   transgender youth in our nation's schools. 2014. Available at:
   http://www.glsen.org/article/2013-national-school-climate-survey.
   Accessed February 19, 2016.
--
   behaviors. J Psychol Human Sex. 2002;14(4):47-65. [Google Scholar]
   18. Deutsch MB. Making it count: improving estimates of the size of
   transgender and gender nonconforming populations. LGBT Health.
   2016;3(3):181-185. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
   19. Conron KJ, Scott G, Stowell GS, Landers SJ. Transgender health in
--
   [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
   21. Flores AR, Herman JL, Gates GJ, Brown TNT. How many adults identify
   as transgender in the United States? 2016. Available at:
   http://williamsinstitute.law.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/How-Many-Adult
   s-Identify-as-Transgender-in-the-United-States.pdf. Accessed November
   8, 2016.
   22. Gates GJ. How many people are lesbian, gay, bisexual, and
   transgender? 2011. Available at:
   http://williamsinstitute.law.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/Gates-How-Many
   -People-LGBT-Apr-2011.pdf. Accessed September 11, 2015.
--
   38. Beck AJ. Sexual victimization in prisons and jails reported by
   inmates, 2011-12 supplemental tables: prevalence of sexual
   victimization among transgender adult inmates. 2014. Available at:
   http://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/svpjri1112_st.pdf. Accessed February
   17, 2016.
--
   8.pdf. Accessed February 17, 2016.
   49. MacCarthy S, Reisner SL, Nunn A, Perez-Brumer A, Operario D. The
   time is now: attention increases to transgender health in the United
   States but scientific knowledge gaps remain. LGBT Health.
   2015;2(4):287-291. [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
--
   http://www.bhs.umn.edu/surveys/survey-results/2013/MNPostsecondary_CSHS
   Report_2013.pdf. Accessed June 10, 2016.
   56. Schilt K, Bratter J. From multiracial to transgender? Assessing
   attitudes toward expanding gender options on the US Census. Transgender
   Stud Q. 2015;2(1):77-100. [Google Scholar]
