   In This Section
     * Transgender and Nonbinary Identities
     * How do I know if I'm transgender?
     * What do I need to know about transitioning?
     * What do I need to know about trans and nonbinary health care?
--

   If your gender is different from the "male" or "female" label on your
   original birth certificate, you may identify as transgender. If your
   gender doesn't fit into the gender binary, you may identify as
   nonbinary.
--
   nonbinary person.

What does transgender mean?

   Transgender means your gender identity is different from the gender
--
   expression.

   Like cisgender people, transgender people express their gender
   identities in different ways -- through dress, behavior, mannerisms,
   and more.
--
What's a gender modality?

   "Cisgender" and "transgender" are key gender modalities. Your gender
   modality describes whether your gender identity corresponds to your sex
   assigned at birth. For example, a cisgender woman's gender modality is
--
   Transgender is both a gender identity and a gender modality. For
   example, a woman who was assigned male at birth may have a gender
   identity of "transgender woman" or "woman." Her gender modality may be
   "transgender" or "not cisgender."

What's gender dysphoria?
--

   While psychologists used to call gender dysphoria "gender identity
   disorder," being transgender and/or nonbinary isn't a mental illness.
   Challenges and distress can be common for trans and nonbinary folks
   because of transphobia (AKA transmisia) -- the ways that society treats
   transgender and nonbinary people as less than human.

   Not everyone experiences gender dysphoria. When they do, it can be
--
What's gender euphoria?

   Gender euphoria is the joy, relief, or well-being that many transgender
   and nonbinary people feel in their gender identity. Gender euphoria
   might happen when someone feels harmony between their gender identity
--
   kinds of transition to feel more like their gender identity.

Is transgender a sexual orientation?

   Nope! People often confuse gender identity, which is about who you are
--
   gender you're attracted to.

   Just like transgender people can have any gender identity or gender
   expression, they can also have any sexual or romantic orientation.

--

   Passing means others see you as the gender that you identify as. For
   example, a transgender woman seen as a cisgender woman is "passing."

   Some transgender people feel that passing is important emotionally
   because it affirms their gender identity. They may experience passing
   as a positive thing that sparks gender euphoria.

   Other transgender people don't care about passing or don't want to "be
   read" as cisgender. For them, passing suggests transgender and
   nonbinary people have to look and sound like cisgender people for their
   gender identity to be "real." They may also see passing as accepting
--
   Because of transphobia/transmisia, passing can provide safety from
   harassment and violence. Someone who passes is likely to have an easier
   time moving through the world than a person who's seen as transgender.
   This person has "passing privilege."

--
   doctor in your area who provides the services you need.

   Next How do I know if I'm transgender?

Book an Appointment
