     * Local News

What is trans and what is the transgender guidance for schools?

     * Published
--
   Getty Images

   The rights of transgender or trans people - and whether they affect the
   rights of women - are often in the spotlight.

--

   New government guidance aims to clarify how schools in England should
   treat transgender pupils.

What is trans and what does transgender mean?

   Gender identity is a term used by some to describe someone's sense of
   their gender.

   A transgender person's gender identity is not the same as the sex
   recorded on their original birth certificate.

   A transgender man is someone registered female at birth, but who
   identifies as a man.

   A transgender woman is someone registered male at birth, but who
   identifies as a woman.

   Trans is a shorter way of saying transgender.

   Gender dysphoria describes the "unease or dissatisfaction" some people
--
   as intersex, or having differences of sexual development (DSD).

What is the DFE transgender guidance for schools?

   Under Department for Education (DFE) guidance issued in December 2023,
--
   a specialist Gender Identity Clinic (GIC).

How many transgender people are there in the UK?

   In the 2021 census, 262,000 people aged 16 and over in England and
--

   A 2018 estimate by the government suggested there could be between
   200,000 and 500,000 people who identify as transgender across the UK as
   a whole.

What changes can transgender people make?

   Many transgender people live according to their chosen gender identity
   - including how they dress, and the name and pronouns they use.

--
   About 7,000 certificates have been issued in England, Wales and
   Scotland.
   A transgender rights protest in London Image source, Getty Images

What is happening to the rules about changing gender?

   In 2018, the UK government began considering changes to the law in
   England and Wales, which it said would make it easier for transgender
   people to alter their legal gender.

--
   government that has more respect for devolution".

What do transgender rights mean for women-only spaces?

   There has been much debate about how to balance the rights of different
--
   those groups from discrimination.

   But single-sex service providers can exclude transgender people where
   this is a ''proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim'', such
   as privacy or safety.
