   [Originally published: March 15, 2022. Updated: March 21, 2022]

   An entire vocabulary has evolved around people who are transgender, and
   if you're not familiar with the latest terms, you can easily hurt
   someone's feelings, even if that's not your intention. Figuring out a
   person's terms can be challenging--the lexicon includes words with
   meanings that have changed over time and could change again. And
   because each transgender person is navigating their own path, the best
   words to use in a conversation with them could vary depending on their
   circumstances.

   No one is expected to get this right at first, but you could make a
   huge difference to a transgender person by being knowledgeable and
   sensitive about language, says Christy Olezeski, PhD, director and
   co-founder of the Yale Pediatric Gender Program, which cares for
   transgender and nonbinary people up to the age of 25.

   "It's really about respect," Olezeski says. "This isn't anything new.
   Transgender and nonbinary people are everywhere."

   Olezeski and other Yale Medicine experts who care for transgender
   patients weighed in on a short guide to understanding terms related to
   the transgender experience, especially if you are a doctor or a
   transgender patient.

Which pronouns should you use?

   If you are not sure which name or pronouns a transgender person
   identifies with, you could introduce yourself and provide the pronouns
   you use to describe yourself. Then ask: "What is your name? Or what
--
   referring to an event that took place before they decided to make a
   transition. If you can't get confirmation, use "they" as a singular
   pronoun when describing a transgender person. The bottom line is to
   avoid making assumptions about a person's gender or pronouns.
     * He/Him/His and She/Her/Hers: These refer to the pronouns a person
--
     * Mx (pronounced "mix"): Used in place of Ms. or Mr. (People have
       used this term when they don't want to call attention to their
       gender, whether they are transgender or not.)

Gender identity terms to know
--
   A person's gender identity reflects their deeply felt, internal sense
   of self as far as their gender, whether or not it aligns with the one
   assigned to them at birth. It applies to all people, transgender or
   not.
     * LGBTQIA+: Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex,
       asexual, and more.

--
       identity.

     * Deadnaming: The practice of calling or referring to a transgender
       person by the name they used at a previous time in life and are no
       longer using, whether or not calling them by that name is
--
       and chest contouring.

     * Facial surgery: For a transgender woman, treatments may include
       Adam's apple reduction and procedures to reshape the nose or other
       areas of the face. Surgeries for a transgender man might include
       jaw augmentation or enhancement of the Adam's apple.

     * Breast augmentation: Using implants to enlarge the breasts.

Other words to know when talking to a doctor about transgender care

   Using appropriate terms can help medical providers discuss transgender
   care with their patients, as well as diagnose and treat transgender
   patients with more accuracy. This applies whether the patient is
   seeking gender-affirming treatment or routine ongoing medical care.
--
       to becoming aligned with another gender identity (which could be
       anywhere along the gender spectrum). This happens over time and the
       trajectory is unique to each transgender person. Some may make a
       "social transition," taking personal and legal steps such changing
       their name, pronouns, and gender expression, as well as telling
--
       related to the male or female genders.

     * Trans man (or transgender man): Someone assigned female sex at
       birth but now identifies as a boy/man/male, regardless of whether
       they have had surgery. Avoid using the term female-to-male (FTM).

     * Trans woman (or transgender woman): Someone who was assigned male
       sex at birth but now identifies as a girl/woman/female, regardless
       of whether they have had surgery. Avoid using the term
       male-to-female (MTF).
     * Transsexual: A term used sometimes in the medical literature or by
       some transgender people to describe people who have gone through
       the process of medical gender affirmation treatments (i.e.,
       gender-affirming hormones and surgeries).
--
   mistakenly confuse with gender terms. These include gay, lesbian,
   bisexual, and pansexual (meaning attracted to people of all gender
   identities and biological sexes)--and they apply to transgender people
   in the same way they apply to cisgender people. In other words, a
   cisgender man who is attracted to other men is gay, and so is a
   transgender man who is attracted to other men.

   In addition, as experts learn more about the nuances of transgender
   issues, new terms have emerged to replace old ones that have come to be
   considered derogatory, disrespectful, or otherwise inappropriate. It
--
   Below are words to avoid:
     * Transvestite: A person who dresses in clothes of the opposite sex.
       A transgender person or cisgender person may or may not
       cross-dress. "Cross-dresser" is the preferable term.

--
       reassignment surgery," or "gender confirmation surgery."

     * Tranny: Considered a slur. Instead, use "transgender people" or
       "transgender person."

   Special thanks to John Encandela, PhD, associate professor of
--

   [Correction: An earlier version incorrectly listed "transsexual" in the
   "transgender terms to avoid" section. The term is now located in the
   "other words to know when talking to a doctor about transgender care"
   section.]
   Read more Yale Medicine news
--
Reproductive Options for Transgender Individuals
       At Yale Fertility Center, we offer an array of treatment options
       for transgender men and women.
     *

