   they identify with.

   Some transgender people feel this way from a very young age, while
   others go through a period of questioning before realizing they are
   transgender. Transgender people can be any gender. They can have any
   sexual orientation, express their gender through their appearance in
   any way, and may or may not fit into society's views of gender.
--
Terminology

   There are a wide range of terms used in reference to transgender
   people, and the definitions of words often vary over time, or between
   different groups of people. it is always important to check in with
--
   labels they may not be comfortable with.

   Generally, all discussion of transgender people is focused on gender
   identity. For example, a trans man is someone who views themselves as a
   man and was assigned female at birth. It is his internal experience (as
--
   society. Similarly, a trans woman views herself as a woman and was
   assigned male at birth. This can confuse those who are new to
   discussions of transgender identity, but it's an important distinction.

   This distinction is based on the understanding that gender and sex are
--
Transition

   Transition is any action a transgender person takes in order for the
   external world to better recognize and reflect their internal gender.
   This can range from asking people to use different names and pronouns,
--
   state.

   Some transgender people have gender euphoria (feelings of elation) from
   making or thinking about their body, gender expression and/or being
   seen and treated as prefered gender.

   Every transgender person has different desires for what they want (or
   do not want) to include in their transition, including surgery and
   other medical procedures. Transgender people who do not plan to have
--
   person's transition.

   Some transgender people are aware of their condition as children and
   begin transitioning then, such as by taking puberty blockers to delay
   the development of sex characteristics until they are old enough to be
--
   settling on a label for themselves.

   Even after transition, transgender people may not want to reflect
   societal stereotypes of their gender identity. For instance, a trans
   woman can be masculine, a tomboy, work as a mechanic, or hate wearing
