   have too often had to put their jobs, relationships, and lives on the
   line just to be their true selves.  Today, we show millions of
   transgender and nonbinary Americans that we see them, they belong, and
   they should be treated with dignity and respect.  Their courage has
   given countless others strength, but no one should have to be brave
--
   the same rights enjoyed by every American, including equal access to
   health care, housing, and jobs and the chance to age with grace as
   senior citizens.  But today, too many transgender Americans are still
   denied those rights and freedoms.  A wave of discriminatory State laws
   is targeting transgender youth, terrifying families and hurting kids
   who are not hurting anyone.  An epidemic of violence against
   transgender women and girls, in particular women and girls of color,
   has taken lives far too soon.  Last year's Club Q shooting in Colorado
   was another painful example of this kind of violence -- a stain on the
--

        My Administration has fought to end these injustices from day one,
   working to ensure that transgender people and the entire LGBTQI+
   community can live openly and safely.  On my first day as President, I
   issued an Executive Order directing the Federal Government to root out
   discrimination against LGBTQI+ people and their families.  We have
   appointed a record number of openly LGBTQI+ leaders, and I was proud to
   rescind the ban on openly transgender people serving in the military.
   We are also working to make public spaces and travel more accessible,
   including with more inclusive gender markers on United States
--

        Meanwhile, we are also working to ease the tremendous strain that
   discrimination, bullying, and harassment can put on transgender
   children -- more than half of whom seriously considered suicide in the
   last year.  The Department of Education is, for example, helping ensure
   that transgender students have equal opportunities to learn and thrive
   at school, and the Department of Justice is pushing back against
   extreme laws that seek to ban evidence-based gender-affirming health
--
   and deserve to be treated equally throughout their lives.  We have
   never fully lived up to that, but we have never walked away from it
   either.  Today, as we celebrate transgender people, we also celebrate
   every American's fundamental right to be themselves, bringing us closer
   to realizing America's full promise.
--
   Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
   March 31, 2023, as Transgender Day of Visibility.  I call upon all
   Americans to join us in lifting up the lives and voices of transgender
   people throughout our Nation and to work toward eliminating violence
   and discrimination against all transgender, gender nonconforming, and
   nonbinary people.

--
     * Share this page on Twitter
     * https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/
       03/30/a-proclamation-on-transgender-day-of-visibility/?utm_source=l
       ink

