   jewelry and watch display cases, and hygiene-related store shelves.

   A growing number of non-transgender individuals are breaking
   traditional gender norms. Male goth youth, for example, wear eyeliner
   and fingernail polish; business women wear pantsuits without makeup or
--
     * MTF

   Some transgender people express gender in very traditional or overt
   ways to better "pass" as the gender with which they identify. For
   example, a male-to-female (MTF) transgender person may always wear
   skirts and stereotypically feminine blouses, paired with matching
   earrings and pristine makeup. A female-to-male (FTM) individual may
--
   Body image can play a role in how people express their gender.
   Transgender people generally have an even more uncomfortable or
   negative relationship with their bodies than non-transgender people.
   Some create a literal armor to hide or alter their bodies or to create
   a different bodily contour:
--
Hormones

   Some transgender people&#151;but by no means all&#151;use hormones as
   part of their medical transition. According to the National Center for
   Transgender Equality's (NCTE) groundbreaking study of 6,450 transgender
   individuals, 62 percent of respondents have had some hormone therapy
   and 23 percent hope to have it in the future.^10 Hormones are available
--

   Because some of the changes from hormone use are permanent, some
   transgender people stop using hormones once they have achieved specific
   physical goals. Others stop for health reasons or because they become
   unable to afford hormones (which may not be covered by health
--
   provider should monitor the individuals' laboratory results and
   physical wellness. Many providers adhere to a standard of care to guide
   their treatment of transgender patients, which requires that a mental
   health professional also be involved.^15 Most standards of care require
   that transgender clients participate in therapy for a time, typically 3
   months to 1 year, after which the mental health care provider will
   write a letter stating that the client is ready to start medical
   treatment. This "gatekeeping" model can create additional challenges.
   For example, transgender people who visit mental health professionals
   may omit certain details about their lives out of fear that they will
   be denied the letter required by the standard of care. Past traumas,
--
   A growing number of LGBT community health clinics and individual
   providers, however, are moving from standards of care to informed
   consent models of care, giving both transgender patients and providers
   more flexibility, autonomy, and control over the health care
   process.^16
--
Surgery

   Non-transgender people frequently believe there is one "transgender
   surgery," which involves the genitals. The reality is that there is no
   "one" surgery and that multiple options or combinations of surgeries
   can help people change their bodies to be more closely in line with
   their gender identity. As with hormone use, health care providers
   operating under standards of care may require their transgender clients
   to participate in therapy before surgery. In fact, surgeons
   specializing in gender-related surgeries often require letters from two
--
       shaving the Adams apple), vaginoplasty (creating a vagina) (20
       percent), and/or removal of the testes (21 percent). Because of the
       danger of attracting anti-transgender violence in public, some
       transgender women consider breast augmentation and facial
       feminization surgeries higher priorities than genital surgery.

--

   Cutting, or non-suicidal self-injury (NSSI), as a way of coping with
   abuse and stress is common among transgender people. In a study of 977
   individuals, almost 42 percent had a history of NSSI, as compared to
   4-38 percent in the non-transgender population. FTMs had substantially
   higher rates of NSSI. Of transgender people who were prevented from
   transitioning (denied letters for hormones or surgery), 50 percent had
   a history of NSSI.^18
--
   (cheaper) versus phalloplasty (much more expensive).

   On rare occasions, some transgender people who have been unable to
   access surgeries due to cost and/or surgeons' refusals to operate have
   attempted self-surgery to remove their breasts, penis, or testicles.

   Contrary to popular belief, many transgender people do not feel the
   need to surgically alter their bodies. For that reason, combined with
   prohibitive costs, lack of access, and worries about functionality and
   aesthetics, FORGE believes that most transgender people do not have
   gender-related surgery. This underlying belief is supported by the
   National Transgender Discrimination Survey's broad sample of
   transgender individuals and their experiences and desires with/for
   surgery.^19
   Back to Top
