
   The federal government and policymakers must address health disparities
   and barriers to care for transgender communities by implementing
   holistic policy solutions.

--
   A man guides his stepdaughter in a wheelchair through a parking lot
   outside a wound care clinic in Los Angeles, 2021. His stepdaughter is
   transgender. (Getty/Francine Orr/Los Angeles Times) A man guides his
   stepdaughter in a wheelchair through a parking lot outside a wound care
   clinic in Los Angeles, 2021. His stepdaughter is transgender.
   (Getty/Francine Orr/Los Angeles Times) A man guides his stepdaughter in
   a wheelchair through a parking lot outside a wound care clinic in Los
   Angeles, 2021. His stepdaughter is transgender. (Getty/Francine Orr/Los
   Angeles Times)

--
   Author's note: "Transgender" is an umbrella term used to describe
   people whose gender identity and/or gender expression differ based on
   the sex they were assigned at birth.^1 The transgender community is not
   a monolith. Transgender people have diverse sexual orientations, gender
   expressions, and gender identities, and transgender identities do not
   depend on physical appearance or medical procedures.

   Discrimination, stigma, and violence, along with other social,
   political, and economic factors, significantly affect the physical,
   mental, and behavioral health of transgender adults.^2 Research
   demonstrates that, compared with the general population, transgender
   people suffer from more chronic health conditions and experience higher
   rates of health problems related to HIV/AIDS, substance use, mental
   illness, and sexual and physical violence, as well as higher prevalence
   and earlier onset of disabilities that can also lead to health
   issues.^3 In addition to poorer health outcomes, transgender people
   also encounter unique challenges and inequalities in their ability to
   access health insurance and adequate care.^4 The public health and
   economic crises spurred by the COVID-19 pandemic have only exacerbated
   existing disparities and barriers to care for transgender people,
   especially transgender people of color.^5
   ____________________
   ________________________________________
--
   Terms of Service apply.

   While robust laws that protect transgender people from discrimination
   based on gender identity are essential to providing greater legal
   safeguards, such tools must be paired with enforcement mechanisms and
--
   competent. Adopting both nondiscrimination laws and inclusive policies
   will be critical for improving health outcomes and the daily lives of
   the estimated 1.4 million^6 adults identifying as transgender in the
   United States.

   To examine the health conditions that transgender adults face, this
   report incorporates storytelling to elevate their lived experiences.
   The following sections highlight:
     * The status of the physical, behavioral, and mental health of
       transgender communities and barriers to accessing general and
       gender-affirming care
     * The contemporary landscape of legal and regulatory
--
       culturally competent care

Health status of and barriers to care for transgender communities

   Transgender individuals are a high-risk population for mental and
--
   underserved by the American medical system.^7 Regular harassment and
   discrimination contribute to high rates of stress and--combined with
   adverse social, political, and economic risk factors--make transgender
   individuals significantly more likely to experience poor health
   outcomes. Structural, institutional, and individual barriers in access
   to care, along with a lack of cultural competency from many health care
   providers, contribute to the large disparities in health between
   transgender and cisgender populations.

   For example, according to 2019 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance
   System (BRFSS) data, 3 in 5 transgender respondents report experiencing
   poor mental health at least one day in the past month--a rate 23
   percentage points higher than that of cisgender respondents. (see
--
   respondents are significantly more likely to be living with HIV.^11 New
   research from the Williams Institute at the University of California,
   Los Angeles School of Law on the first transgender population-based
   national dataset developed through the TransPop study shows that 7
   percent^12 of transgender respondents have at some point been told by a
   doctor that they have a sexually transmitted infection (STI), compared
   with 2 percent of heterosexual cisgender respondents. (see Appendix A
--

   The coronavirus pandemic has exacerbated these existing disparities.
   Elevated rates of asthma, regular smoking, and HIV among transgender
   populations make them more prone than the general population to
   experience a severe case of COVID-19.^13 For example, CAP analysis of
   2019 BRFSS data shows that 22 percent of transgender individuals have
   been told they have asthma, compared with 14 percent of cisgender
   individuals. One international survey of transgender individuals during
   the pandemic found that 50 percent of respondents had risk factors for
   a severe course of a COVID-19 infection.^14 Evidence demonstrates that
   the economic and social inequalities felt by transgender individuals
   also make them less able to access quality care^15 and more likely to
   encounter the coronavirus due to factors such as overrepresentation in
--
   food services; hospitals; K-12 education; colleges and universities;
   and retail.^16 Isolation during the pandemic has also been particularly
   damaging to the mental health of transgender populations, who already
   face higher rates of mental health disparities,^17 and 1 in 3 reported
   having suicidal thoughts during the pandemic.^18 One in 2 reported that
--
Health effects of minority stress

   High rates of mental and physical health conditions among transgender
   people^21 can be partly explained under a "minority stress" model, a
   well-supported theory^22 that for minorities within a society, stigma,
--
   depression and anxiety and drive higher prevalence of unhealthy
   or high-risk behaviors.^23 According to a nationally representative
   survey of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, and
   other sexual and gender-diverse individuals (LGBTQI+) conducted by the
   Center for American Progress,^24 2 in 3 transgender individuals have
   experienced some form of discrimination in the year prior, including 65
   percent of transgender people of color.^25 The 2015 U.S. Transgender
   Survey, conducted by the National Center for Transgender Equality,
   found that 46 percent of transgender individuals reported verbal
   harassment due to their gender identity in the past year,^26 while
   nearly 1 in 10 reported being physically attacked in the past year.
   Both numbers increase significantly for Black, Middle Eastern, and
   American Indian transgender populations.^27

   TransPop data^28 show extensive discrimination in the day-to-day lives
   of transgender respondents. Thirty-eight percent of transgender
   respondents reported that they were often or sometimes called names or
   insulted in the past year,^29 compared with 14 percent of cisgender
--
   Most alarmingly, such experiences have been connected to both
   nonsuicidal self-injury^37 and attempted suicide: 42 percent of
   transgender individuals reported attempting suicide to cope with
   transgender-related discrimination.^38 Data from the TransPop survey
   reveal disparities in suicidal behavior between transgender and
   cisgender heterosexual individuals in terms of contemplating suicide
   during their lifetime (81 percent^39 versus 30 percent); attempting
--
   substance use. Transgender individuals who report experiencing high
   levels of discrimination are 3.59 times more likely to engage in binge
   drinking^42 than transgender individuals who report low levels of
   discrimination.^43 CAP analysis of data from the BRFSS shows that 59
   percent of transgender individuals report smoking tobacco some days or
   every day, compared with 39 percent of cisgender individuals.^44 (see
   Figure 5) TransPop data also show large disparities in drug use: 25
   percent of transgender respondents report using drugs other than
   alcohol at least twice a month, compared with 10 percent of cisgender
   heterosexual respondents. Discriminatory experiences have also been
   linked to difficulty engaging in healthy life practices, which is
   compounded by economic difficulties.^45 BRFSS data reveal that
   transgender adults reported exercising in the past month at a rate of 8
   percent lower than cisgender respondents; were 9 percent less likely to
   consume at least one fruit a day; and were 11 percent less likely to
--

   The threat or presence of violence represents an additional determinant
   of health for many transgender people. In addition to causing physical
   injuries, the presence of violence against transgender people in many
   environments contributes to minority stress and mental health
   consequences.

   Lethal violence is widespread, and reported killings are increasing
   annually: In the United States, 29 transgender or gender-nonconforming
   people have been reported killed in 2021 so far, and 44 were killed in
   2020.^46 The true number is likely higher, as law enforcement and media
   often do not accurately identify victims.^47 Black and Latina
   transgender women are consistently and drastically overrepresented
   among victims. Awareness and fear of potential victimization contribute
   to the many stresses that transgender people already face. This fear is
   justified by not only the possibility of lethal violence but also the
   ubiquity of nonlethal violence. The TransPop survey found that 48
   percent of transgender adults in the United States have been beaten,
   physically attacked, or sexually assaulted at least once since the age
   of 18^48--a rate 12 percentage points higher than that of cisgender
   heterosexual people. (see Figure 7) Nearly half of those transgender
   respondents experienced such violence three or more times. Sixty-one
   percent of transgender people reported being threatened with violence,
   and 76 percent reported verbal insults or abuse.^49

   Violence takes many forms. According to the TransPop survey, 32 percent
   of transgender people report experiencing intimate partner violence,^50
   a rate 7 percentage points higher than that of cisgender heterosexual
   people. Among cases of transgender women killed in the U.S. between
   2015 and 2020, almost half of identified suspects were intimate
   partners, a category taken to include romantic partners, sex work
--
   aggravated assault.^52 Violence also occurs in many settings: A
   Washington, D.C., survey found that perpetrators of physical assault
   against transgender people include co-workers, students and school
   staff, police, incarcerated people and prison staff, and shelter
   residents or staff.^53
--
   Violence has serious health consequences, both physical and mental.
   Estimates of the prevalence of post-traumatic stress disorder in
   transgender population samples range from 18 percent to 61 percent,
   compared with 6.8 percent among the general adult population.^54

--
   IFRAME: https://datawrapper.dwcdn.net/MGkqp

The context of transgender health disparities: Social determinants of
health and minority stress

   Disparities in health status, health care access, and health
   outcomes often arise from conditions that are not explicitly associated
   with the medical system or the nature of transgender identity but are
   driven by broader social determinants of health. These determinants
   include factors such as socioeconomic status, education,
   and physical environments.^55 Oppressive structures such as racism,
   sexism, and transphobia influence where transgender people live, how
   they work, what food they can access, and how they are treated in their
   environments.

   For transgender people, social determinants have concrete effects on
   health. High rates of poverty make medical care unaffordable. High
   rates of housing instability disrupt the continuity of care.
--
   of care. Discrimination by employers leads to unemployment and
   consequent uninsurance. Criminalization and incarceration disrupt the
   continuity of care and expose transgender people to violence and
   trauma. Addressing the health disparities faced by transgender people
   requires addressing the many structural forms of exclusion,
   discrimination, and violence they endure.
--
   one's identity to avoid stigma and discrimination^56 is itself a public
   health problem that generates unique and pronounced disparities between
   transgender people and others.

   In context, then, transgender health is a multifaceted social,
   economic, and political issue. Furthermore, many transgender people
   are people of color, people with disabilities, sex workers, or
   immigrants; their experiences of stigma, discrimination, and socially
   determined health conditions are distinctive and
   intersectional. Efforts to address transgender health
   disparities therefore run the risk of leaving many behind if they do
   not center the effects of racism, misogyny, criminalization, ableism,
   and xenophobia on transgender people's health.

Social determinants of health and adverse health outcomes
--

   High rates of rejection from family members are a major contributor to
   poor health outcomes among transgender people. According to TransPop
   data, 44 percent of transgender individuals had a parent physically
   hurt them at least once during childhood,^57 compared with 25 percent
   of cisgender heterosexual respondents. Many transgender people report
   having a more strained or conflicted relationship with their parents
   than their cisgender heterosexual counterparts (57 percent^58 compared
   with 22 percent), and many more report being bullied as a minor (46
   percent^59 compared with 17 percent). According to the U.S. Transgender
   Survey, 8 percent of transgender individuals report being kicked out of
   their home for being transgender, and 10 percent report running away
   from home.^60 This contributes to the fact that 30 percent of
   transgender individuals have experienced homelessness at some point in
   their lifetime--a number that increases to 51 percent among Black
   transgender women.^61 Family rejection is also associated with both the
   misuse of drugs and alcohol and attempted suicide.^62

Barriers to economic security

   Broadly, transgender individuals encounter systemic and institutional
   discrimination and barriers to economic security. According to TransPop
   data, 62 percent of respondents report a personal income of below
   $25,000 annually, compared with 40 percent of cisgender heterosexual
   respondents. More than 1 in 4 transgender respondents from CAP's 2020
   survey reported a household income of less than $25,000 annually.^63
   (see Figure 8) Staggeringly, a survey of transgender and
   gender-nonconforming individuals in the southeastern United States
   found that 79 percent were food insecure.^64 Disparities in economic
   security and access to food have been proven to affect health status;
   one survey of transgender individuals in New York state found that
   those with incomes below the poverty line were almost twice as likely
   to report fair or poor health.^65 These obstacles not only exacerbate
   stress, leading to mental and physical ailments, but also make it more
   difficult for transgender individuals to afford quality care. More than
   half of transgender individuals reported postponing or not receiving
   necessary medical care in the year prior to CAP's survey because they
   could not afford it, including 60 percent of transgender respondents of
   color. And 40 percent avoided preventive screenings in the year prior
   to CAP's survey due to cost, including 31 percent of transgender
   respondents of color.^66

--
   coverage creates barriers to care for populations that are vulnerable
   to unemployment and employment discrimination.^67 In a 2020 CAP survey,
   27 percent of transgender respondents reported that they were currently
   unemployed.^68 More than half of transgender individuals reported that
   discrimination moderately or significantly affected their capacity to
   be hired in the year prior to CAP's survey, while nearly half reported
--
   ability to retain employment in the year prior to the survey--with
   rates of reported discrimination significantly increasing for
   transgender people of color.^69 (see Figure 9) This discrimination
   leads to labor market exclusion and lower rates of insurance through
   employers, with transgender individuals reporting receiving
   employer-based insurance at a rate 7 percentage points lower than
   cisgender LGBTQI+ individuals.^70 Overall, transgender adults report
   uninsurance rates that are 7 percentage points higher than those of
   cisgender individuals.^71
--
   Barriers to economic opportunities, labor and housing market
   discrimination and exclusion, lack of legal protections, and family
   rejection are main contributors to transgender people experiencing
   disproportionately high rates of homelessness. Nearly one-third of
   transgender individuals report living in poverty--compared with just 12
   percent of the U.S. population^72--limiting their capacity to afford
   rent or mortgage payments. A majority of states lack legal protections
   in housing based on gender identity,^73 and 23 percent of transgender
   individuals--including 49 percent of Black transgender
   individuals--have reported experiencing some form of housing
   discrimination, including eviction and the denial of a home or
   apartment.^74 (see Figure 10) For example, CAP survey data show that 52
   percent of transgender individuals reported that discrimination
   negatively affected their ability to rent or buy a home to some degree
   in the year prior to the survey, compared with 36 percent of cisgender
--
   physical health and are associated with high rates of drug use,
   depression, anxiety, and suicide.^76 These effects are worsened due to
   the lack of safe shelter access. Among transgender individuals who have
   stayed in shelters, 70 percent have reported experiencing harassment,
   physical assault, or removal.^77 (see Figure 11) One in 4 transgender
   individuals experiencing homelessness report avoiding homeless shelters
   for fear of harassment, and an additional 6 percent have been denied
   access to shelter,^78 contributing to 63 percent of transgender people
   experiencing homelessness also being unsheltered.^79 Among unsheltered
   transgender populations, 60 percent are trimorbid, facing co-occurring
   physical, mental, and substance use disorders.^80 Unsheltered
   transgender people are more than seven times as likely to have police
   interactions and more than eight times as likely to be sent to jail or
   prison than transgender individuals who are sheltered. Those numbers
   increase among Black unsheltered transgender individuals.^81

   Figure 11
--
   a police encounter in the year prior, 58 percent experienced some form
   of mistreatment, including 61 percent of Black respondents and 71
   percent of Latino/a respondents.^82 Police often target transgender
   people in discretionary interactions. One study of Latina transgender
   women in Los Angeles found that 60 percent of those who had been
   stopped by the police had not violated any laws.^83 Most prominently,
   police often use the pretext that transgender individuals--particularly
   transgender women, and especially transgender women of color--are sex
   workers to create grounds to accost or detain them.^84 This practice is
   made easier by state statutes criminalizing loitering and practices
   allowing the possession of condoms to be used as justification for
   arrest and evidence of prostitution. These policies are so often used
   to target transgender people that they are referred to as "walking
   while trans" laws.^85 Staggeringly, 22 percent of individuals from the
   U.S. Transgender Survey who were arrested believe that they were
   arrested as a result of their gender identity,^86 likely contributing
   to CAP survey data showing that 50 percent of transgender individuals
   report avoiding police to avoid experiencing discrimination, compared
   with 29 percent of cisgender LGBQI+ respondents.

   Higher rates of contact with the criminal legal system mean that
   transgender individuals are incarcerated at a rate two times that of
   cisgender individuals.^87 These rates are even higher among transgender
   people of color; for example, Black transgender women are incarcerated
   at a rate 10 times that of the cisgender population. Incarcerated
   transgender people are often placed in housing in accordance with their
   gender assigned at birth; are nearly 10 times as likely to be assaulted
   than the general prison population; and face constant harassment from
   staff and other incarcerated persons.^88 Many are also disallowed from
   continuing necessary transition care. One in 3 incarcerated transgender
   people who had been taking hormones prior to their incarceration were
   prohibited from taking them.^89
--
   overall report experiencing sexual abuse and assault, making them 97
   times as likely to be sexually victimized than non-LGBT people in
   custody.^93 There are many reports of transgender individuals being
   denied access to basic health care, including hormone therapy and
   necessary care for those living with HIV.^94
--
   dependent on health care access and therefore inaccessible to many,
   especially when specific medical procedures are required. Even more
   barriers to identification changes exist for transgender people with
   criminal records, who already face unique risks associated with
   discrimination and law enforcement interactions.^96 CAP's survey shows
   that 66 percent of transgender respondents reported discrimination
   having an impact on their ability to obtain accurate identification
   documents in the year prior to the survey, compared with 23 percent of
   cisgender LGB respondents. TransPop data show that 1 in 2 transgender
   respondents have no identification with their authentic name, and just
   1 in 3 have any identification with their authentic pronouns. In
   practice, this may expose transgender people to harassment, violence,
   and administrative barriers when engaging with health care providers,
   the legal system, law enforcement, stores, and banks. Among those whose
   identifications do not reflect their current name or gender, 25 percent
   of transgender people have been verbally harassed and 16 percent have
   been denied services or benefits.^97 Incongruence between
   identification documents and gender identity has also been associated
--
   depression, and adverse responses to gender-based mistreatment.^98

The context of barriers to care for transgender people: Medical system
hostility

   Hospitals, clinics, and doctors' offices should be safe environments
   where people are given the medical care they need. For many transgender
   people, this is not the case. Even when providers do not outright
   refuse to treat transgender people, they may verbally abuse or
   physically harm their transgender patients.^99 Refusal and abuse of
   transgender people of color is even more common.^100

   For transgender people who use drugs, have disabilities, or experience
   mental illness, medical system involvement also carries the risk of
   institutionalization or contact with the criminal legal system. Medical
--
   as well,^101 and this hostility is often inseparable from transphobia.
   Medical system hostility has led to a long-standing reliance by
   transgender communities on black markets and informal networks to
   obtain gender-affirming care--practices that have resurfaced as the
   COVID-19 pandemic erects new barriers. For many, the risks of
--
   feel safer than having to engage with health care providers.^102

   Supporting transgender people through the medical system can only be
   achieved with the trust of transgender patients. This trust has been
   violated repeatedly, violently, and fatally--from the long-standing
   classification of transgender identity as a mental
   disorder^103 to the psychologically abusive use of pseudoscientific
   conversion therapy^104 to the historical and continued failure
   of public health responses to the HIV epidemic.^105 Medical systems
   must earn transgender people's trust if they hope to effectively
   address health disparities.

--

   Transgender individuals face additional barriers due to a lack of
   cultural competency in how to provide treatment for transgender and
   gender-diverse populations. One in 3 transgender people reported having
   to teach their doctor about transgender people in order to receive
   appropriate care in the year prior to CAP's survey.^106 And 15 percent
   report being asked "invasive or unnecessary questions about being
   transgender" not related to their reason for visiting.^107 Sixty-two
   percent of transgender respondents from the TransPop survey reported
   worrying about being judged because of their sexual orientation or
   gender identity when seeking health care,^108 with 63 percent agreeing
--
   curricula lack information about the unique health issues and treatment
   of LGBT people beyond work related to HIV, likely contributing to
   transgender people's inability to access affirming care.^109 Notably,
   just 20 percent of transgender respondents to TransPop report being
   very satisfied with the health care they receive, compared with 45
   percent of cisgender heterosexual respondents. And 20 percent of
   transgender respondents report having no place to go when sick or need
   advice about health,^110 compared with 10 percent of cisgender
   heterosexual respondents.

   Discrimination also affects the ability to access services, as TransPop
   data show that 61 percent of transgender respondents report having a
   personal doctor or health care provider,^111 compared with 76 percent
   of cisgender heterosexual respondents. Transgender individuals are less
--

   Further damaging are the high rates at which health care providers
   mistreat and abuse transgender adults. Nearly 1 in 2 transgender
   individuals, including 68 percent of transgender people of color,
   reported experiencing mistreatment at the hands of a provider in the
   year prior to CAP's survey, including care refusal as well as verbal or
   physical abuse.^114 (see Figure 13) Twenty-eight percent of transgender
   individuals reported postponing or not receiving necessary medical
   care in the year prior to CAP's survey for fear of experiencing
   discrimination, including 22 percent of transgender people of color.
   (see Figure 14) Stigma and discrimination from health care providers
   has also been explicitly linked to increased levels of substance use
   among transgender individuals.^115

   Figure 14
--

   Existing barriers to accessing medically necessary gender-affirming
   care create additional obstacles. Forty-six percent of transgender
   individuals had a health insurer deny them gender-affirming care in the
   year prior to CAP's survey.^116 Fifty-five percent of transgender
   individuals report needing to travel at least 10 miles in order to
   receive transition-related care,^117 which can make it inaccessible for
--
   notable legal and regulatory developments and recommendations for
   further action under the Biden administration. These recommendations
   are essential to building a more transgender-inclusive legal apparatus
   but should also be paired with in-practice policies set out below that
   promote affirming, quality care.
--
       essential. Doing so not only accurately reflects the current state
       of the law but is also supported by the large^125 majority^126 of
       Americans who oppose discrimination against transgender people. EO
       13988 granted each agency head 100 days to develop plans in
       consultation with the U.S. attorney general to carry out actions to
--
       country's health care system is vital, especially given the current
       wave of discriminatory, dangerous, and harmful state bills that aim
       to strip transgender people of their rights and ability to access
       to health care. As highlighted in the previous section,
       discrimination affects transgender communities across multiple,
       intersecting areas of life, including health care, employment, and
       housing. It is therefore imperative that all federal agencies
--
       the Equality Act will also be imperative to combating
       discrimination in multiple key areas of life that jeopardize the
       ability of transgender people to access health care and maintain
       economic security. And it would provide legal recourse from
       discrimination in public spaces and services as well as federally
--
       Catholic systems and the fact that more than 1 in 6 hospital beds
       are in Catholic hospitals, many of which follow
       transgender-exclusive ethical and religious directives from the
       U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.^128

--

   In 2016, the HHS Office for Civil Rights (OCR) issued a historic^131
   rule codifying nondiscrimination protections for transgender people in
   health facilities, programs, and activities that receive federal
   funding. The rule clarified^132 that the sex nondiscrimination
   protections in Section 1557 explicitly protect transgender individuals
   on the basis of gender identity and confirmed that individuals must
   have access to health care facilities and programs that are in
--
       nondiscrimination protections by explicitly prohibiting
       discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity, gender
       expression, gender transition, transgender status, sex stereotypes,
       and sex characteristics (including intersex traits) and clarify the
       same scope of claims and remedies exist under Section 1557
--
       conforming amendments and clarify the scope of coverage and
       nondiscrimination in CMS rules for the Marketplace, Medicaid, and
       Medicare; and clarify protections for transgender and
       gender-diverse patients in health care and coverage by adopting
       regulatory and preamble language, guidance, technical assistance
       and enforcement efforts that underscore the wide range of scenarios
       in which discrimination against transgender patients can occur and
       is prohibited under federal law. Finally, the HHS should publish
       the 2016 proposed rule^140 establishing explicit nondiscrimination
--
     * Twitter

     ""]"I have a transgender son. My son needs hormone blockers, but we
     are at a standstill right now because our insurance company does not
     want to pay due to Trump's proposal to take away protections for the
     transgender community. This is a life and death matter. Without
     hormone blockers, my son's anxiety and anger will be out of control
     and his mental health will deteriorate.""
--
   There is a growing consensus among expert and medical organizations
   that gender-affirming health care, including surgical procedures, is
   medically necessary.^141 Historically, however, transgender-specific
   exclusions have been deployed by public and private health insurers to
   deny transgender people coverage for medically necessary care,
   including for care unrelated to gender affirmation.^142 For example,
   insurers would regularly deny transgender people services and
   procedures such as hormone therapy, mental health counseling,
   preventive screenings, and surgeries that are regularly covered for
--
   private companies that were eliminating exclusions in their employee
   coverage appeared to be rapidly increasing,^145 and many insurers in
   the individual market removed transgender-specific exclusions, even
   after this part of the rule was enjoined in court.^146 However, the
   Trump administration's final rule eliminated these explicit regulatory
   protections, resulting in a lack of clarity and life-threatening^147
   consequences for transgender people across the country.

Recommendations

     * Clarify that transgender exclusions do not comply with federal law.
       The HHS should issue guidance to state Medicaid directors stating
       that transgender-specific exclusions are out of compliance with
       federal law. This guidance should suggest enforcement mechanisms,
       enumerate the ways in which medical necessity determinations can be
--
       remove any exclusions and promulgate coverage protocols for
       gender-affirming care that are grounded in the most up-to-date
       medical standards of care in the field of transgender medicine.^149
     * Encourage state and federal regulatory bodies to adopt similar
       affirmative coverage language. These measures should include
--
       Insurance Oversight's (CCIIO) review process of plans to ensure
       compliance with state- and federal-level gender identity
       nondiscrimination requirements.^150 Because transgender consumers
       continue to find it challenging to obtain information from insurers
       regarding whether gender-affirming care will be covered,^151 the
       federal government should also invest additional funding in
       LGBTQI-specific outreach and enrollment support for transgender
       consumers in the individual health insurance market and Medicaid.
     * Improve Medicare coverage. Absent a national coverage
--
       gender-affirming care and services regarded as medically necessary
       by the World Professional Association for Transgender Health's
       Standards of Care.^155 Partly or wholly excluding transgender
       health care from employer insurance plans constitutes
       discrimination under federal law.^156 In compliance with the
--
       should take action to remove existing exclusions or other
       restrictions and direct carriers to cover comprehensive
       gender-affirming care through the FEHB to transgender employees,
       including beneficiaries and eligible dependents.^157 Furthermore,
       in light of its recent announcement,^158 the U.S. Department of
--
       discriminatory exclusion for gender-affirming surgical care,^159 as
       well as any other restrictions that limit the ability of
       transgender veterans to access gender-affirming care.^160
     * Explicitly clarify protections for transgender patients in health
       care. Any notice-and-comment rule-making related to Section 1557
       should clarify protections for transgender and gender-diverse
       patients in health care and coverage. Through the rule, enforcement
       mechanisms, and technical assistance to insurers and providers, the
       HHS should provide clear guidance on what it means for covered
       entities and providers not to discriminate against transgender
       patients and the wide range of scenarios in which discrimination
       can occur. At a minimum, the CMS should issue a letter to state
--
     * Improve enforcement and accountability through technical assistance
       and oversight. While studies show that insurers have largely moved
       away from transgender-specific categorical exclusions in plans,
       insurers continue to discriminatorily reject coverage.^161 As such,
       to promote enforcement and accountability among insurers, the above
--
       enforcement mechanisms will institute systemic accountability and
       lessen that burden. The OCR should simultaneously implement
       awareness campaigns to ensure that transgender people are aware of
       their right to nondiscrimination and lift up highly valuable
       community-based legal resources. (see Appendix B)
--
     * Twitter

     ""]"Despite having employer health care coverage, a transgender
     woman from Boulder County, Colorado, with a significant family
     history of breast cancer had to struggle with her insurance provider
--

   Grants issued by the HHS total more than $500 billion annually^162 and
   fund a wide array of programs and services that transgender people rely
   on--including those addressing substance use and mental health,
   homelessness, intimate partner violence, anti-bullying efforts, aging
--
   economic, and social effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.^170 In addition
   to being at greater risk of suffering severe illness from the
   coronavirus,^171 transgender people reported experiencing
   disproportionately high rates of serious financial hardship and
   employment disruption during the pandemic, undermining their economic
--
Recommendations

     * Integrate targeted relief for transgender communities into
       coronavirus testing, vaccine, and recovery efforts. During the
       first days of his presidency, President Biden signed various EOs to
       promote a strategic, data-driven, and equity-centered approach to
       addressing the pandemic.^173 These actions should be used as an
       opportunity to integrate targeted relief to support transgender
       communities. For example, federal and state governments should
       partner with and financially support community-based organizations
       to issue vaccine distribution plans and outreach campaigns
       targeting transgender communities; share information about
       accessing testing, vaccines, and the right to receive services free
       from discrimination under the law; and dispel misinformation about
--
       pandemic has also highlighted the need for a national paid sick
       leave policy. The administration should continue to support efforts
       to expand paid medical and family leave for transgender people by
       adopting an inclusive definition of chosen-family caregiving
       relationships^175--a provision included in the president's proposed
       American Families Plan, which Congress should act to adopt.^176
     * Enhance data collection to shed light on the experiences of
       transgender people during the COVID-19 pandemic. There are numerous
       steps that the HHS, with the support of the COVID-19 Health Equity
       Task Force, should take to support data collection that will
       provide greater clarity on the experiences of transgender people
       during the pandemic.^177 The existing COVID-19 laboratory data
       guidance from the HHS^178 should be revised to require voluntary
--
       expanding and enhancing SOGI data collection in public health
       surveillance. Taking these steps is essential to collect more
       accurate information on transgender peoples' health needs, bring
       visibility to their experiences throughout the pandemic, and help
       federal, state, and local programs reduce disparities and improve
--
   collection mechanisms often conflate sex and gender or rely solely on a
   binary model of sex and gender that fails to capture health outcomes
   for transgender and other gender-diverse populations.^182 To better
   understand and address health disparities that transgender communities
   face, it is imperative that federal agencies, including the HHS, the
   U.S. Department of Commerce, and the U.S. Department of Labor, expand
--
   distributing funding resources, tracking and addressing discrimination,
   and designing evidence-based policy solutions to promote equity and
   reduce existing disparities that transgender communities face across
   key areas of life.^183

--
       ensure high standards for collection, storage, sharing, and use
       that promote security and confidentiality. These actions should
       include efforts to meaningfully engage directly with transgender
       communities and organizations for the purposes of qualitative and
       quantitative research.
--
Access to identification documents

   Gender-incongruent forms of identification expose transgender people to
   a range of adverse outcomes and pose a significant barrier to accessing
   a wide range of services, including those related to health care.
   Unfortunately, many states^184 still impose intrusive and burdensome
   requirements^185 for transgender people to update their IDs--such as
   providing proof of surgery or court orders--to amend driver's licenses
   or birth certificates. In June 2021, President Biden signed an EO on
   Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility in the Federal
   Workforce,^186 directing relevant agencies to take steps to facilitate
   access to identity credentials that meet the needs of transgender,
   gender-nonconforming, and nonbinary employees and to reduce unnecessary
   administrative burden for updating employee identity credentials. Also
--
Recommendation

     * Facilitate the process through which transgender people acquire
       accurate IDs. As part of the EO on Advancing Racial Equity and
       Support for Underserved Communities Through the Federal
--
       individuals can select a designation for M, F, or X, and remove
       medical certification. Gender-incongruent identification increases
       the risk of exposing transgender people to discrimination,
       harassment, violence, and administrative barriers when engaging in
       a variety of settings. As such, states should also modernize their
       policies or processes for transgender people to access
       identification--such as driver's licenses, birth certificates, and
       legal name changes--that matches their gender identity.^189
--

   Nondiscrimination protections alone cannot rectify the health
   consequences of the long-standing structural exclusion that transgender
   people face. Access to legal recourse in instances of discrimination in
   health care does not address many of the social determinants
--
   Needs beyond nondiscrimination protections are visible in locations
   such as Washington, D.C. Despite the district having some of the most
   transgender-inclusive health care protections in the country,^190 a DC
   Trans Coalition survey found that transgender people in Washington,
   D.C., were much more likely to be uninsured, HIV positive, use illicit
   substances, or experience suicidality, with transgender people of color
   reporting higher rates in all these categories.^191 The organization's
   community needs assessment found that access to "trans-sensitive health
   care" was the community's top priority.^192 A further study of sex
   workers in Washington, D.C., most of whom were transgender, identified
   sex work criminalization and housing insecurity as the primary barriers
   to their health and well-being.^193
--
   through hormones and surgeries. While medical transition is widely
   recognized as holistically beneficial to those who seek it out,^194 the
   pressing health care needs of many transgender people include care for
   chronic conditions,^195 care associated with disability, and mental
   health treatment^196--and not all transgender people would choose to
   medically transition even if this care were available.

   Meanwhile, many health providers lack basic knowledge of the health
   experiences of transgender people and must increase their cultural
   competence to effectively serve their transgender patients. According
   to CAP's nationally representative survey, in the year prior, 33
   percent of transgender respondents reported having to teach their
   doctor or provider about transgender people in order to receive
   appropriate care; 32 percent of respondents reported misgendering by
   doctors or providers; and 38 percent reported providers being visibly
--
   these policies are interconnected and should be implemented together to
   foster a holistically inclusive and supporting health care environment
   for transgender and gender-nonconforming patients.

Increase funding for programs that advance the health of transgender
communities

--
   significant and intersectional impacts that discrimination, minority
   stress, violence, and various social determinants of health have on the
   physical, mental, and behavioral health of transgender adults. In
   addition to the nondiscrimination regulatory and in-practice policies
   recommended here, there are multiple broad-based policies and
   investments beyond the scope of this report that will also help to
   address the myriad harms, barriers to care, and disparities that
   transgender communities face. For example,^201 the Biden
   administration, Congress, and state and local governments should
   increase funding and support for entities providing LGBTQI+ family
--
   behavioral health services that take a trauma-informed, harm-reduction
   approach; LGBTQI+ community health centers; affordable housing models
   that are explicitly designed for transgender communities; efforts to
   combat violence and improve attitudes toward transgender people;^202
   collaborative, restorative justice, and community-centered
   organizations providing LGBTQI+ survivors of violence with support
--

   Given the widespread discrimination and negative experiences that
   transgender people encounter in health settings, as well as the
   historic pathologizing of transgender people by the medical community,
   it is crucial for health care providers to communicate to transgender
   patients that they are entering an inclusive and affirming environment
   where they will be treated with respect. In addition to staff training,
--
   policy--and placed in areas of high visibility--as well as added to
   patient handouts and providers' websites.^207 Additionally, materials
   specific to the needs of transgender patients related to general care
   and gender-affirming care should be available and visible. Where
   possible, patient navigation services for transgender patients seeking
   gender-affirming care should be provided.

--

   It is imperative that both administrative staff and clinical providers
   receive annual cultural competency training related to transgender and
   gender-diverse identities and terminology, as well as how to avoid
   stereotyping or making assumptions about a patient's gender
--
   using names and pronouns, obtaining information related to insurance or
   medical records, and generally creating an affirming environment for
   transgender and nonbinary patients.^210 To ensure implementation, the
   government should include high-quality LGBTQI+ cultural competency as a
   mandatory component in all federally conducted or supported training
--

Adopt clinical standards and education on the health experiences and needs of
transgender communities

   Presently, among many clinical providers there exists a lack of
   knowledge and cultural competence concerning the experiences and health
   care needs of transgender people; a lack of mental and behavioral
   health specialist services; and a lack of awareness regarding health
   professionals' own biases resulting in unequal and discriminatory
--
   disparities.^213 In addition to cultural competency training, clinical
   providers should receive robust medical training and learn education
   curricula about the health care risks and needs of transgender
   populations located within a deeper understanding of the social,
   political, and economic forces that shape existing disparities and
--
   Appropriate Services in Health and Health Care, which should be
   continuously modified to be inclusive of and better aligned with
   meeting the needs of transgender and gender-diverse patients.^214

Increase funding for community health centers and other safety net providers

   The historical and continued hostility of insurers and providers has
   led many transgender people to rely on community health centers, which
   were often created by LGBTQI+ communities themselves. While these
   services remain uncommon outside of urban areas and coastal states,
   they provide urgently needed and affordable care targeted to LGBTQI+
   populations.^215 In these areas, support for existing, trusted services
   is essential to transgender health. Federal funding for community
   health centers can be increased through the Health Resources and
   Services Administration designating LGBTQ people as a Medically
--
   Title X funds due to their provision of family planning
   services, and Title X programs have historically been crucial for
   transgender people due to their low-barrier provision of STI treatment
   and prevention services, basic health maintenance, and gender-affirming
   care.^219 In 2018, for example, 100 Planned Parenthood
   affiliates provided hormone therapy for transgender people,^220 and
   many Title X providers offer comprehensive and targeted care for
   LGBTQ populations.^221 The Trump-era domestic gag rule^222 imposed
--
     irrelevant to the circumstances which led me to seek medical care.""

Develop policies to prevent violence against transgender people

   The Biden administration has created an Interagency Working Group on
   Safety, Inclusion, and Opportunity for Transgender Americans, which
   is intended in part to address violence against transgender people and
   the factors contributing to it.^224 The establishment of this group
   presents a unique opportunity to coordinate federal policymaking to
--
   enforcement interactions.

   Intimate partner violence presents a complex problem for transgender
   people--and one which law enforcement agencies are not equipped to
   address. Economic insecurity can exacerbate intimate partner violence,
   creating special vulnerabilities to financial abuse.^226  Comprehensive
   efforts to improve the economic security of transgender people would
   begin to address these factors. Expanded funding for affirming services
   for survivors of violence and implementation of nondiscrimination
   protections in emergency services such as shelters would mitigate the
   immediate effects of these issues by increasing transgender survivors'
   access to support systems.

   Addressing violence against transgender sex workers is complicated by
   the effects of sex work criminalization on survivors' access to support
   systems and health care.^227 Improved economic security and funding for
--
   decriminalization of sex work.

   Policies to prevent violence against transgender people must also
   address the direct role of law enforcement and carceral systems in
   perpetrating this violence. Transgender people are seven times more
--
   prisons, and juvenile detention.^229 These dangers must be addressed
   through broader efforts to decrease law enforcement interactions and
   criminal legal system involvement among transgender people, including
   policies advancing the decriminalization of sex work, rather than
   increased funding for law enforcement training.
--
Efforts to address the HIV epidemic and support people living with HIV

   CDC data reveal that transgender communities, particularly
   Black/African American transgender people, Hispanic/Latino transgender
   people, and transgender women in general, are disproportionately
   affected by HIV. In 2018, 2 percent of all new HIV diagnoses in the
   United States and dependent areas were among transgender people, with
   disproportionate new HIV diagnoses among Black/African American
   transgender women and Black/African American transgender men, as well
   as among transgender people aged 25 to 34.^230 HIV prevalence is
   roughly 20 times higher among transgender people, and roughly 30 times
   higher among transgender women, than among the general population.^231
   To address existing disparities and continue working toward the HHS's
   goal of ending HIV by 2030^232 requires that biomedical prevention and
   treatment options for HIV only be adopted as part of a more holistic
   approach that recognizes the structural and systemic barriers that lead
   to disproportionate effects among transgender communities of color.
   These barriers include the criminalization of sex work, drug use, and
   HIV status, which prevent many transgender people from safely engaging
   with public health initiatives.^233 The administration must adopt an
   approach that meaningfully involves and centers the experiences of
--
   removal of restrictions on syringe purchases by these programs. This
   would reduce the harms associated with hormone injection, substance
   use, HIV, and hepatitis C among transgender people who cannot easily
   access safe supplies.^238

--

   Discrimination, stigma, poverty, and violence significantly affect the
   physical, mental, and behavioral health of transgender adults and drive
   disparities in access to health insurance and adequate care. To improve
   these outcomes and the experiences of transgender patients in health
   care settings, it is critical to adopt both robust nondiscrimination
   laws and in-practice policies that are affirming, inclusive, and
   culturally competent throughout all areas of the U.S. health care
   system. Given the current slate of discriminatory and harmful
   state-level bills that seek to strip transgender youth and adults of
   their rights and access to health care, fully implementing these
   protections is vital and will have life-saving consequences. The
--

   This sample includes data from 1,528 LGBTQI+-identifying individuals,
   including 121 transgender individuals, collected with assistance from
   NORC at the University of Chicago using their AmeriSpeak panel. A
   sample of U.S. adults ages 18 and older who self-identified as LGBTQI+
--
   additional information on survey results, please see CAP's related
   report^246 and interactive.^247 All statistics from CAP's survey
   comparing transgender respondents with cisgender LGBTQI+ respondents
   are significant at the 0.05 level.

--
   and one territory have opted to include questions to ascertain an
   individual's gender identity, creating a sample of 232,088 cisgender
   individuals and 955 transgender individuals. This data is weighted to
   account for probability of selection, nonresponse bias, and U.S.
   population characteristics. All statistics comparing transgender
   respondents with cisgender respondents are significant at the 0.05
   level. Data and a detailed methodology are on file with the authors and
--
University, Harvard University, and the Fenway Institute at Fenway Health

   TransPop is the first nationally representative survey of transgender
   individuals in the United States. Conducted over the phone and mail by
   Gallup from 2016 to 2018, the TransPop study was a national probability
   sample of 1,436 adults over the age of 18, including 274 transgender
   individuals and 1,040 cisgender heterosexual individuals. The sample
   has been weighted to account for both survey nonresponse and U.S.
--
   The Williams Institute released a comprehensive overview of results
   from its TransPop and Generations surveys in June 2021.^250 This
   overview included the vast majority of statistics for transgender
   respondents to TransPop cited in this report. Where a statistic cited
   here was taken from this overview, an endnote is included to account
   for it. In addition, Feldman and others recently released a study
   comparing health and health care access of transgender and cisgender
   individuals, also cited in this report and an important resource for
   providing a thorough overview of differences in health outcomes.^251
--
   with statistics for cisgender heterosexual respondents to TransPop, the
   statistic comes from original CAP data analysis. All comparisons
   between transgender and cisgender heterosexual individuals from
   TransPop are significant at the 0.1 level.

--
       r-people-the-basics (last accessed July 2021); The Association of
       LGBTQ Journalists, "Transgender," available at
       https://www.nlgja.org/stylebook/transgender/ (last accessed July
       2021).
    2. See National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine,
--
       2020, available at
       https://www.kff.org/health-reform/issue-brief/demographics-insuranc
       e-coverage-and-access-to-care-among-transgender-adults/; Linda M.
       Wesp and others, "Intersectionality Research for Transgender Health
       Justice: A Theory-Driven Conceptual Framework for Structural
--
       ID19-Apr-2020.pdf.
   14. Andreas Koehler and others, "How the COVID-19 pandemic affects
       transgender health care in upper-middle-income and high-income
       countries - A worldwide, cross-sectional survey," medRxiv (2020),
       available at
--
   17. Arjee Javellana Restar and others, "Characterising the impact of
       COVID-19 environment on mental health, gender affirming services
       and socioeconomic loss in a global sample of transgender and
       non-binary people: a structural equation modelling," BMJ Global
       Health 6 (3) (2021), available at
       https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33753401/.
   18. Koehler and others, "How the COVID-19 pandemic affects transgender
       health care in upper-middle-income and high-income countries."
   19. See Koehler and others, "How the COVID-19 pandemic affects
       transgender health care in upper-middle-income and high-income
       countries"; Restar and others, "Characterising the impact of
       COVID-19 environment on mental health, gender affirming services
       and socioeconomic loss in a global sample of transgender and
       non-binary people: a structural equation modelling."
   20. Alyssa Fowers and William Wan, "`The volume has been turned up on
       everything': Pandemic places alarming pressure on transgender
       mental health," The Washington Post, August 18, 2020, available at
       https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2020/08/18/coronavirus-transg
--
       the Center for American Progress and NORC at the University of
       Chicago. Survey results are on file with the authors. Unless
       otherwise indicated, all statistics on transgender individuals
       differ significantly from those of cisgender LGBTQ respondents at
       the 0.05 level.
--
   26. James and others, "The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey."
   27. Gia Elise Barboza, Silvia Dominguez, and Elena Chace, "Physical
       victimization, gender identity and suicide risk among transgender
       men and women," Preventive Medicine Reports 4 (2016): 385-390,
       available
--
       "Understanding the Well-Being of LGBTQI+ Populations."
   33. Sari L. Reisner and others, "Discriminatory experiences associated
       with posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms among transgender
       adults," Journal of Counseling Psychology 63 (5) (2016): 509-519,
       available at https://doi.org/10.1037/cou0000143.
--
   37. Stephanie L. Brennan and others, "Relationship among gender-related
       stress, resilience factors, and mental health in a Midwestern U.S.
       transgender and gender-nonconforming population," International
       Journal of Transgenderism 18 (4) (2017): 433-445, available at
       https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/15532739.2017.1365034.
--
       32 states include an optional module asking individuals about their
       sexual orientation and gender identity, providing a total sample of
       955 transgender individuals and 230,459 cisgender individuals. All
       percentages included that create a comparison between transgender
       and cisgender respondents are significant at the 0.01 level.
   45. See Karen I. Fredriksen-Goldsen and others, "Physical and Mental
--
       r-and-gender-non-conforming-community-in-2021 (last accessed July
       2021).
   47. Natalee Seely, "Reporting on transgender victims of homicide:
       Practices of misgendering, sourcing and transparency," Newspaper
       Research Journal 42 (2) (2021), available at
--
   50. Ibid.
   51. Samantha Schmidt, Brittany Renee Mayes, and Nia Decaille,
       "Surviving as a Black transgender woman in Baton Rouge," The
       Washington Post, June 29, 2021, available
       at https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2021/06/28/transgender-w
       omen-homicides-intimate-partner-violence/.
   52. Federal Bureau of Investigation, "Crime in the U.S. (CIUS),"
--
       nied-final.pdf.
   54. Reisner and others, "Discriminatory experiences associated with
       posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms among transgender adults."
   55. Samantha Artiga and Elizabeth Hinton, "Beyond Health Care: The Role
       of Social Determinants in Promoting Health and Health Equity,"
--
       LGBTQ People in the US."
   64. Jennifer Russomanno and Jennifer M. Jabson Tree, "Food insecurity
       and food pantry use among transgender and gender non-conforming
       people in the Southeast United States," BioMed Central Public
       Health 20 (590) (2020), available at
--
       with HIV in immigration detention facilities," Transgender Law
       Center, September 25, 2019, available at
       http://transgenderlawcenter.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Complain
       t-on-LGBTQ-Detention-Final-October.pdf.
   95. Movement Advancement Project, "Equality Maps: Identity Document
--
       Scheim, Amaya G. Perez-Brumer, and Greta R. Bauer,
       "Gender-concordant identity documents and mental health among
       transgender adults in the USA: a cross-sectional study," Lancet
       Public Health 5 (2020): 196-203, available at
       https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS2468-2667(20)
--
       turning to `grey market' pharmacies to get gender-affirming care
       during the pandemic," Insider, April 17, 2020, available at
       https://www.insider.com/transgender-people-turn-to-grey-market-for-
       hormones-during-pandemic-2020-4.
   103. American Psychological Association, "APA Resolution on Gender
--
   110. Meyer, Wilson, and O'Neill, "LGBTQ People in the US."
   111. Jamie L. Feldman and others, "Health and health care access in the
       US transgender population health (TransPop) survey," Andrology
       (2021): 1-12, available at https://doi.org/10.1111/andr.13052.
   112. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine,
--
       https://www.kff.org/other/press-release/poll-large-majorities-inclu
       ding-republicans-oppose-discrimination-against-lesbian-gay-bisexual
       -and-transgender-people-by-employers-and-health-care-providers/.
   126. Public Religion Research Institute, "Is Religious Liberty a Shield
       or a Sword?" (Washington: 2021), available at
--
       Individuals" (Washington: 2021), available at
       https://www.acog.org/clinical/clinical-guidance/committee-opinion/a
       rticles/2021/03/health-care-for-transgender-and-gender-diverse-indi
       viduals; American Medical Association, "Health insurance coverage
       for gender-affirming care of transgender patients" (Chicago: 2019),
       available at
       https://www.ama-assn.org/system/files/2019-03/transgender-coverage-
       issue-brief.pdf); Endocrine Society, "Position Statement:
       Transgender Health" (Washington: 2020), available at
       https://www.endocrine.org/advocacy/position-statements/transgender-
       health; American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, "AACAP
       Statement Responding to Efforts to ban Evidence-Based Care for
--
       and Practices," November 1, 2016, available at
       https://apha.org/policies-and-advocacy/public-health-policy-stateme
       nts/policy-database/2017/01/26/promoting-transgender-and-gender-min
       ority-health-through-inclusive-policies-and-practices.
   142. Katie Keith, "HHS Strips Gender Identity, Sex Stereotyping,
--
       Baker, "LGBT Protections in Affordable Care Act Section 1557";
       Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund, "Memorandum Re:
       Liability for transgender health care exclusions in employer health
       plans" (New York: 2021), available at
       https://transhealthproject.org/documents/46/Memo_on_transgender_hea
       lth_exclusions.pdf.
   143. Kellan Baker and Andrew Cray, "Why Gender-Identity
--
       eviews (last accessed July 2021).
   156. Legal Defense and Education Fund, "Memorandum Re: Liability for
       transgender health care exclusions in employer health plans."
   157. The White House, "Executive Order on Diversity, Equity, Inclusion,
       and Accessibility in the Federal  Workforce," June 25, 2021,
--
       Veterans," available at
       https://transequality.org/blog/department-of-veterans-affairs-begin
       s-work-to-expand-access-to-health-care-to-transgender (last
       accessed July 2021).
   161. Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund, "Memorandum Re:
       Liability for transgender health care exclusions in employer health
       plans."
   162. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, "Grant
--
       er-Law-and-Policy-Report-FINAL.pdf.
   194. Cornell University, "What does the scholarly research say about
       the effect of gender transition on transgender well-being?",
       available at
       https://whatweknow.inequality.cornell.edu/topics/lgbt-equality/what
--
       r-people/ (last accessed May 2021).
   195. Ashleigh J. Rich and others, "Non-HIV chronic disease burden among
       transgender populations globally: A systematic review and narrative
       synthesis," Preventive Medicine Reports 20 (2020), available at
       https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7732872/.
--
       Quality Health Care for Transgender Patients: Transgender-Affirming
       Hospital Policies" (Washington: 2013), available at
       https://www.lambdalegal.org/publications/fs_transgender-affirming-h
       ospital-policies; National LGBT Health Education Center,
       "Affirmative Care for Transgender and Gender Non-Conforming People:
--
       st-Practices-for-Front-line-Health-Care-Staff.pdf.
   199. Cornell University, "What does the scholarly research say about
       the effect of gender transition on transgender well-being?"
   200. See, for example, Lambda Legal, "Creating Equal Access to Quality
       Health Care for Transgender Patients."
--
       /494500/improving-lives-rights-lgbtq-people-america/.
   202. Andrew R. Flores and others, "Challenged expectations: Mere
       exposure effects on attitudes about transgender people and rights,"
       Political Psychology 39 (1) (2018): 197-216.
   203. Santos, "Justice in Reentry for Formerly Incarcerated LGBTQ People
--
   230. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, "HIV and Transgender
       People: HIV Diagnoses," available at
       https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/group/gender/transgender/hiv-diagnoses.html
       (last accessed May 2021).
   231. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, "HIV and Transgender
       Communities" (Washington: 2019), available at
       https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/pdf/policies/cdc-hiv-transgender-brief.pdf.
   232. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, "Ending the HIV
       Epidemic" available at https://www.cdc.gov/endhiv/index.html (last
--
   250. Ibid.
   251. Feldman and others, "Health and health care access in the US
       transgender population health (TransPop) survey."
   252. National Center for Transgender Equality, "Know Your Rights in
       Health Care," available at
--
   254. Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund, "Trans Health
       Project," available at
       https://transgenderlegal.org/our-work/trans-health-project/ (last
       accessed June 2021).
   255. Human Rights Campaign, "Know Your Healthcare Rights," available at
--

   Hispanic LGBTQ Individuals Encounter Heightened Discrimination A block
   party for the local lesbian, gay, and transgender youth of the
   neighborhood, July 2017. (Getty/Andrew Lichtenstein) A block party for
   the local lesbian, gay, and transgender youth of the neighborhood, July
   2017. (Getty/Andrew Lichtenstein)

