What Is Transgender?

   Diverse gender identities fall under the transgender umbrella
   By Elizabeth Boskey, PhD
   Updated on July 03, 2023
--
   Transgender is a term used to describe people whose gender identity
   does not conform with the gender they were assigned at birth. A person
   designated male at birth who identifies as female is a transgender
   woman, while a person designated female at birth who identifies as male
   is a transgender man.

   In recent years, transgender has become an umbrella term that includes
   not only people who are binary (male or female) but also those who are
   non-binary or gender-non-conforming.
--
   Gender affirmation, or the process of aligning one's outward expression
   of gender with one's inward sense of gender, is central to the
   transgender identity. Medical treatments or surgery may be involved,
   but not always.

   This article explains what it means to be transgender, including the
   terminology used and how to use it correctly. It also describes the
   process of gender affirmation and some of the serious challenges faced
   by transgender people today.
   People hold signs, banner and placards with lgbt rainbow and
   transgender flag during pride month celebration against violence,
   descrimination, human rights violation. Equality and
   self-affirmarmation. People hold signs, banner and placards with lgbt
   rainbow and transgender flag during pride month celebration against
   violence, descrimination, human rights violation. Equality and
   self-affirmarmation.
--
   assigned female at birth or to identify as female if you were assigned
   male at birth. And, to many, that remains the definition of
   "transgender," described on the male-female binary.

   But not everyone sees gender in the same way.
--

   In the current vernacular, non-binary people may fall under the
   "transgender umbrella" when they consciously move away from expected
   gender roles and align themselves, their presentation, and sometimes
   their bodies with their own gender identity.
--

   Whether binary or non-binary, the one characteristic that connects all
   transgender people is that the gender assigned to them at birth does
   not match their own internal sense of gender identity.

   This mismatch can be felt from as early as three to five years in some
   transgender children. Others may not recognize it until puberty when
   changes in their bodies create a palpable sense of unease about their
   gender and all that implies. Others still may not recognize this until
--
   misalignment of a person's assigned gender and gender identity.

   In response to gender dysphoria, a transgender person may pursue gender
   affirmation in its different forms to align their gender identity
   (their inward sense of gender) with their gender expression (their
--

   Despite what many people think, a person does not have to undergo
   medical treatments to be transgender. Social and/or legal affirmation
   may be far more important to some people.

   While many transgender people will take hormones to align their
   physical expression with their gender identity, there are many who
   don't and have no desire to.
--
Terminology and Appropriate Usage

   Transgender is an adjective (as in "he is a transgender man"). It is
   not used as a noun (such as "he is a transgender")" or a verb ("he is
   transgendered").

   "Trans" is often used as a shorthand for transgender, so it is usually
   acceptable to describe a transgender man as a trans man and a
   transgender woman as a trans woman.

   If someone identifies as transgender, you would typically use the
   pronouns "he" and "him" for a transgender man and "she" and "her" for a
   transgender woman. Even so, non-binary or gender-non-conforms people
   may prefer "them" and "they" or other pronouns, so ask first if you are
   unsure.
--

   There are other terms that have been displaced because they
   mischaracterize was being transgender is about. Others still are
   considered offensive and should never be used.

--
       suggests that genitals are physical and gender identity is somehow
       psychological.
     * Gender-confirming: A transgender person does not need to confirm or
       "prove" their gender. A transgender person affirms their gender by
       asserting their authentic self. Gender-affirming surgery is
       preferred, for example, over gender-confirming surgery.
     * Gender reassignment: In the same vein, a transgender person's
       gender is not changed or reassigned. This is especially true if you
       are non-binary and identify as neither male nor female.
     * Sex change: This is an outdated and largely offensive term that
       suggests that being transgender is about changing one's genitals.
     * Transsexual: This is another outdated and offensive term that
       equates transgender identity with surgery, such as when describing
       a "pre-op transsexual" and "post-op transsexual."
     * Tranny, She-Male, or She-He: These are defamatory terms used to
       dehumanize transgender people.
     * Transgenderism: This is a term used by anti-trans activists that
       suggests that there is a movement to "recruit" or "push" people
       toward becoming transgender.

   What to Know About Metoidioplasty (Bottom Surgery)
--
   It is estimated that about 0.5% of adults in the United States (1.3
   million) and 1.4% of youth between the ages of 13 and 17 years (or
   300,000) identify as transgender.

   Studies have shown that being transgender in the United States is
   fraught with challenges, including transphobia and discrimination in
   all realms of employment, education, healthcare, safety, and daily
--

   The National Transgender Discrimination Survey is the largest survey to
   assess the experiences of transgender people in the United States. It
   has been performed twice--first in 2008 with 6,450 respondents and then
   in 2013 with more than 27,000
--
   physical harassment in healthcare spaces.

   Because of this, many transgender people report avoiding medical care,
   for fear of experiencing additional discrimination or abuse. Others
   report avoiding care because they lacked financial or other resources.
--
       physical, or sexual abuse.

   Discrimination is even worse for transgender people of color, who may
   experience bias based on both their skin color and their gender
   identity.
--

   Gender diversity is a normal part of a functioning society and has been
   reported throughout history. Although transgender individuals have an
   increased risk of certain negative health outcomes, research suggests
   that this does not reflect any inherent issue with being transgender.
   Instead, it reflects the minority stress related to being part of a
   society that may not be accepting.

   Indeed, research suggests that one of the most important factors
   associated with the health of transgender people is access to an
   affirming environment and desired medical care. This is particularly
   true for transgender children and adolescents, who have been shown to
   do as well as their cisgender peers when their families are supportive
   and accepting.

   While not all transgender individuals are interested in medical or
   surgical affirmation, all people need health care at some point during
   their lives. Therefore, it is important to make all healthcare
   facilities safe and affirming for people of diverse genders. Lack of
   access to affirming health care is a risk factor for health concerns
   for transgender people of all ages.
   7 Sources
   Verywell Health uses only high-quality sources, including peer-reviewed
--
       Psychol Psychiat. 2019;24(2):379-87. doi:10.1177/1359104519838593
    3. Sevelius JM. Gender affirmation: a framework for conceptualizing
       risk behavior among transgender women of color. Sex Roles. 2013 Jun
       1;68(11-12):675-89. doi: 10.1007/s11199-012-0216-5
    4. World Professional Association for Transgender Health. Standards of
       care for the health of transsexual, transgender, and
       gender-nonconforming people.
    5. Williams Institute/University of California, Los Angeles. How many
       adults and youth identify as transgender in the United States?
    6. Grant JM, Mottet L A , Tanis J, Harrison J, Herman JL, Keisling M.
       Injustice at Every Turn: A Report of the National Transgender
--
       2017;102(11):3869-3903. doi:10.1210/jc.2017-01658
     * Mahfouda S, Moore JK, Siafarikas A, et al. Gender-affirming
       hormones and surgery in transgender children and adolescents.
       Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2019;7(6):484-498.
       doi:10.1016/S2213-8587(18)30305-X
--
       Health; Committee on Adolescence; Section on Lesbian, Gay,
       Bisexual, and Transgender Health and Wellness. Ensuring
       comprehensive care and support for transgender and gender-diverse
       children and adolescents. Pediatrics. 2018;142(4):e20182162.
       doi:10.1542/peds.2018-2162
     * Stotzer RL. Data sources hinder our understanding of transgender
       murders. Am J Public Health. 2017;107(9):1362-1363.

--
   (BUTTON) Submit
   Related Articles
   gender dysphoria transgender gender dysphoria transgender
   How Gender Dysphoria Is Diagnosed
   An unrecognizable person holding and showing a pin with non binary
--
   What Is Gender-Affirming Hormone Therapy?
   A person wearing a mask with the Columbian flag standing beneath a
   transgender pride flag blowing in the wind. A person wearing a mask
   with the Columbian flag standing beneath a transgender pride flag
   blowing in the wind.
   What Is Transphobia?
