
   Accueil > Fluid Genders > Who are Transgender People ? The Basics

Who are Transgender People ? The Basics

--

   Transgender is an « umbrella » term used to describe a wide range of
   identities and experiences, and is used to refer to many types of
--

   In its broadest sense, « transgender » encompasses anyone whose
   identity or behavior falls outside stereotypical gender expectations.
   It is important to understand that some people may identify as
   transgender but not fall into one of the subcategories discussed here.
   This publication attempts to identify many of the ways in which
   transgender individuals identify and express themselves, but this
   listing is in no way complete. Furthermore, it is particularly
   important to realize that many individuals, despite the fact that they
   may appear transgender to some, do not consider themselves to be
   transgender. It is important that we not label people transgender based
   on our perceptions, but instead use the words they use to describe
--
   birth—for example, a person born female typically identifies as a girl,
   and later, as a woman. For many transgender people, there may not be a
   match.
--
   to the outside world, including through dress, appearance, and
   behavior. For many transgender people, their gender expression doesn’t
   match what society thinks it should be.
--

   Transgender : An « umbrella » term for people whose gender identity,
   expression or behavior is different from those typically associated
--
   transsexuals, crossdressers, androgynous people, genderqueers, and
   gender non-conforming people. Transgender is a broad term and is good
   for providers to use.

   Transgender Man : A term for a transgender individual who currently
   identifies as a man (see also « FTM »).

   Transgender Woman : A term for a transgender individual who currently
   identifies as a woman (see also « MTF »).
--
   consider two-spirit a term that can refer to lesbian, gay, bisexual and
   transgender people, while others think it is best used only for
   transgender people.

--
   person who was assigned female at birth, but now identifies and lives
   as a male. Also known as a « transgender man. »

--
   person who was assigned male at birth, but now identifies and lives as
   a female. Also known as a « transgender woman. »

   Passing : A term used by transgender people to mean that they are seen
   as the gender they self-identify as. For example, a transgender man
   (born female) who most people see as a man.
--
   bars, clubs, or other events. It is also used as slang, sometimes in a
   derogatory manner, to refer to all transgender women.

--
   These definitions are influenced by a variety of sources. See Patrick
   Letellier, Beyond He and She : A Transgender News Profile (January
   2003), Good Times ; Intersex Society of North America, www.isna.org the
--
   www.glaad.org the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network,
   www.glsen.org and Transgender Equality : A handbook for activists
   and policymakers. New York : National Gay and Lesbian Task Force Policy
