
   At its January 19, 2022 meeting, the NCAA Board of Governors updated
   the transgender student-athlete participation policy governing college
   sports.

   The new policy aligns transgender student-athlete participation with
   the Olympic Movement. The resulting sport-by-sport approach preserves
   opportunity for transgender student-athletes while balancing fairness,
   inclusion and safety for all who compete.

   Like the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Committee, the updated NCAA policy
   calls for transgender student-athlete participation for each sport to
   be determined by the policy for the national governing body of that
   sport. If there is no NGB policy for a sport, it would then be
--
Phase One - 2022 winter and spring championships

   For participation in 2022 winter and spring championships, transgender
   student-athletes were required to provide documentation to the CSMAS
   within four weeks before the selections date for their championship.
--

   Beginning Aug. 1, 2022, participation in NCAA sports requires
   transgender student-athletes to provide documentation that meets the
   above criteria for the 2010 NCAA policy, plus meet the sport standard
   for documented testosterone levels at three points in time: 1. Prior to
   any competition during the regular season; 2. Prior to the first
   competition in an NCAA championship event; and 3. Prior to any
   competition in the non-championship segment. See the transgender
   student-athlete eligibility review procedures for more information.

--

   Beginning Aug. 1, 2024, participation in NCAA sports requires
   transgender student-athletes to provide documentation no less than
   twice annually (and at least once within four weeks of competition in
   NCAA championships) that meets the sport-specific standard (which may
--

   The Board of Governors urged the divisions to allow for additional,
   future eligibility if a transgender student-athlete loses eligibility
   based on the policy change, provided they meet the newly adopted
   standards.
--
   Final Report. The report assists ongoing membership efforts to support
   an inclusive environment that promotes and develops the mental and
   physical health of transgender and non-binary student-athletes in
   collegiate sport. The foundational principles in this report will be
   developed further in conjunction with the Committee to Promote Cultural
