Transgender FAQ

   To learn more about how to be an ally to transgender people, check out
   GLAAD's Tips for Allies of Transgender People.
   What does transgender mean?

   Transgender is a term used to describe people whose gender identity
--
   person's internal, personal sense of being a man or a woman (or boy or
   girl.) For some people, their gender identity does not fit neatly into
   those two choices. For transgender people, the sex they were assigned
   at birth and their own internal gender identity do not match.

   People in the transgender community may describe themselves using one
   (or more) of a wide variety of terms, including (but not limited to)
   transgender, transsexual, and non-binary. Always use the term used by
   the person.

   Trying to change a person's gender identity is no more successful than
   trying to change a person's sexual orientation -- it doesn't work. So
   most transgender people seek to bring their bodies into alignment with
   their gender identity. This is called transition.

   As part of the transition process, many transgender people are
   prescribed hormones by their doctors to change their bodies. Some
   undergo surgeries as well. But not all transgender people can or will
   take those steps, and it's important to know that being transgender is
   not dependent upon medical procedures.

   Transgender is an adjective and should never be used as a noun. For
   example, rather than saying "Max is a transgender," say "Max is a
   transgender person" or "Max is a transgender man." And transgender
   never needs an "-ed" at the end.
   How is sexual orientation different from gender identity?

   We use the acronym LGBTQ to describe the lesbian, gay,
   bisexual, transgender, queer community. The Q can also sometimes mean
   questioning.

--
   fall in love with; gender identity is about who you are.

   Like everyone else, transgender people have a sexual orientation.
   Transgender people may be straight, lesbian, gay, bisexual, or queer.
   For example, a person who transitions from male to female and is
--
   person who transitions from female to male and is attracted solely to
   men would typically identify as a gay man.
   What does non-binary mean, and is it different from being transgender?

   Everyone has a gender identity, an internal sense of self and
--
   is the same as the sex they were assigned at birth (cisgender) and for
   some people their gender identity is different than the sex they were
   assigned at birth (transgender).
   There have always been transgender people who felt that their gender
   identity didn't fall neatly into the two binary categories of "man" or
   "woman." In the past, trans people who felt that way used the words
--
   other than "man" or "woman." People who use the word non-binary to
   describe their gender identity typically also call themselves
   transgender.
   In recent years,  the word non-binary has seen a surge in popularity.
   As more people use the word non-binary to describe themselves, it has
--
   things to different people.
   Many of those people either explictly say something like, "I'm not
   transgender, I'm non-binary," implying those are two identities are
   unrelated, or they will simply never use the word transgender when
   describing themselves.
   Language is evolving in real time. But it's important to understand
   that there is no one right or wrong way to be non-binary, just like
   there is no right or wrong way to be transgender.
   The bottom line is: listen to how someone uses the word non-binary to
   describe themselves and try to understand how they are using it. Many
   of them will be telling you that they are a transgender person who is
   non-binary, while others will be using non-binary in a different way to
   describe their experience. Regardless, simply accept that they know
--
   What name and pronoun do I use?

   For some transgender people, being associated with their birth name is
   a tremendous source of anxiety, or it is simply a part of their life
   they wish to leave behind. Respect the name a transgender person is
   currently using. If you happen to know a transgender person's birth
   name (the name given to them when they were born, but which they no
   longer use), don't share it without that person's explicit permission.
   Sharing a transgender person's birth name and/or photos of a
   transgender person before their transition is an invasion of privacy,
   unless they have given you permission to do so.

--
   deal you make out of the situation, the more uncomfortable it is for
   everyone.
   How do I treat a transgender person with respect?
   To learn more about how to be an ally to transgender people, please
   visit GLAAD's "Tips for Allies of Transgender People" page. For a guide
   to basic terminology, including defamatory terms and slurs to avoid,
   please see GLAAD's Media Reference Guide.
   Why is transgender equality important?

   Transgender people face staggering levels of poverty, discrimination,
   and violence. In 2016, 27 transgender people were killed. Since January
   1, 2017, eight transgender women of color have been murdered.

   According to the "2015 U.S. Trans Survey," a report by the National
   Center for Transgender Equality:
     * 29% of transgender people live in poverty, compared to 14% of the
       general population
     * 30% of transgender people report being homeless at some point in
       their lives, with 12% saying it was within the past 12 months
     * Transgender people experience unemployment at 3x the rate of the
       general population, with rates for people of color up to 4x the
       national unemployment rate
     * 30% of transgender people report being fired, denied a promotion,
       or experiencing mistreatment in the workplace due to their gender
       identity in the past 12 months
     * 31% of transgender people experienced mistreatment in the past year
       in a place of public accommodation, including 14% who were denied
       equal service, 24% who were verbally harassed, and 2% who were
       physically attacked because they were transgender
     * 40% of respondents reported attempting suicide in their lifetime,
       nearly nine times the attempted suicide rate in the United States
       (4.6%)

   Transgender people, particularly transgender women of color, face
   shockingly high rates of murder, homelessness, and incarceration. Most
   states and countries offer no legal protections in housing, employment,
--
   Learn more about being an ally

   To learn more about how to be an ally to transgender people, please
   visit GLAAD's "Tips for Allies of Transgender People" page.
   Learn more about transgender people and history

   In spite of the tremendous challenges that come with living in a
   culture that does not treat transgender people equally, transgender
   people have made and are making significant contributions to society.
   Watch HBO's The Trans List to find out about some strong transgender
   advocates.

   For a look at the history of transgender people in America, check
   out Transgender History by Susan Stryker and the GLAAD Media
   Award-winning films by Rhys Ernst We've Been Around and This is Me.
--
Transgender FAQ

   Learn more about transgender people and the issues important to them

Media Professionals

   If you are a media professional working on a story, please check out
   GLAAD's resources for covering transgender people in the media.

GLAAD's Work on Transgender Issues

   Learn about the work GLAAD does everyday to ensure transgender people
   are treated fairly in the media.

Tips for Allies

   Learn more about how to be an ally to transgender people

Report Defamation

   If you see defamation of transgender people in the media, we encourage
   you to report it now.

Transgender Resources

   Check out a list of resources for transgender people and their allies.


