   (BUTTON)

What does transgender mean?

   Medically reviewed by Francis Kuehnle, MSN, RN-BC -- By Beth Sissons on
--
     * Summary

   A transgender means a person has a different gender identity than their
   assigned gender at birth.

   This article discusses the definition of transgender.

   It also looks at other definitions of different gender identities and
   commonly used terminology, as well as access to healthcare and allyship
   relating to transgender issues.

LGBTQIA+ resources
--

   What does it mean?
   A transgender woman playing the drums. Share on PinterestElisabeth
   Ubbe/Getty Images

   The National Center for Transgender Equality defines transgender people
   as those who have a different gender identity to their assigned gender
   at birth. Some people may also use "trans" as a shortened version for
   transgender.

   Gender identity is the innate knowledge of who a person is. Every
--
   A healthcare professional usually assigns newborns either a male or
   female sex at birth. If people identify with a different gender to the
   one they were assigned, they may describe themselves as transgender.

   A transgender woman is someone who is currently living as a woman but
   was assigned a male sex at birth. A transgender man is someone who is
   currently living as a man but was assigned a female sex at birth.

   Some transgender people may not identify with being either male or
   female, or may identify as a combination of male and female. Other
   terms people may use to describe their gender identity include
   nonbinary or genderqueer.

   How would a person know if they are transgender?

   People may realize they are transgender at any age. Planned Parenthood
   notes that many people know they are transgender from a young age, and
   others may not realize until later in life.

--
     * Talk about their feelings with a therapist or counselor.

   A person can also try to learn about other transgender people's
   experiences. They can do this through reading literature written by
   transgender people or meeting transgender people in person.

   It may be possible to find helpful LGBTQIA+ resources and support
--
   Transgender and gender dysphoria

   Some transgender people may experience severe emotional distress if
   there is a difference between their gender identity and assigned sex at
   birth. The medical term for this is gender dysphoria.
--
   than their assigned sex at birth.

   Transitioning is not necessary to be transgender, although many
   transgender people choose to transition at some point.

   There are no set steps or criteria for transitioning, and it is
--
Gender-affirming hormones

   Some transgender people may choose to take gender-affirming hormones.
   These are hormones that create physical changes in the body to align
   with a person's gender identity.
--
Gender-affirming surgery

   Some transgender people may choose to have gender-affirming surgery.
   People may choose to have surgery that alters their face, chest, or
   anatomy to align with their gender identity.
--
     * Tips on transitioning and presenting as more feminine later in life

   Accessing healthcare as a transgender individual

   People may want to search for healthcare professionals and clinics
   where staff are trans-friendly and have appropriate training and
   knowledge in transgender issues.

   People can find local providers in their state or city through the
--
   Learn more about different types of gender identities here.

   What is the difference between transgender and intersex?

   The Intersex Society of North America defines intersex as "a general
--
   Learn more about what it means to be intersex here.

   What is the difference between transgender and gender nonconforming?

   A person who is gender nonconforming does not conform to the
--
   with their gender.

   Someone who is gender nonconforming may or may not be transgender.
   Transgender people may be gender nonconforming or they may conform to
   the gender stereotypes of the gender they identify with.
--
   gender that changes over time.

   Transgender people may be nonbinary, but many transgender people
   identify as either a man or a woman.

--
   Being an ally

   Being an ally to transgender people can help create a safer and better
   society for transgender people, and people of all gender identities.

   Action steps as an ally can include:
     * respecting a transgender person's gender identity and use of
       pronouns
     * avoiding referring to a person's birth name or assigned sex at
       birth, if a person has changed their name
     * avoiding making any assumptions about transgender people, such as
       their sexual orientation
     * using inclusive language that avoids gender, such as "person"
       instead of "man" or "woman" in group settings
     * supporting the use of all-gender public restrooms
     * respecting that it is up to a transgender person to share their
       gender history or not, and avoiding "outing" a transgender person
     * listening to transgender people and learning about their
       experiences
     * supporting campaigns for transgender equality

   Pronoun usage

   People can make sure always to use the pronouns a transgender person
   wants them to use. If people are unsure which pronouns a person uses,
   make introductions using preferred pronouns and ask the other person
--

   If appropriate, people can also ask which terms a person wants others
   to use to describe their gender identity. Many transgender people may
   identify as a man or a woman.

--

   Certain words or phrases can be very disrespectful or offensive to
   transgender people.

   According to GLAAD, terminology to avoid includes:
   Terminology to avoid Preferred terminology Reason
   a transgender or transgenders transgender people or a transgender
   person Transgender is an adjective, not a noun.
   transgendered transgender Adding "-ed" adds confusion and is
   grammatically incorrect.
   transgenderism being transgender Anti-transgender activists use the
   term "transgenderism" to dehumanize transgender people.
   sex change, pre-operative, or postoperative transition Using these
   terms implies that a person must have surgery to be transgender.
   sex change surgery or sex reassignment gender-affirming surgery With
   surgery, the person is not changing their sex, but altering their body
--
   o assigned or designated female at birth A number of factors determine
   a person's sex. These terms oversimplify a complex subject.
   passing or stealth o visibly transgender
   o not visibly transgender The terms imply that transgender people are
   deceiving.

--
   Summary

   The term transgender refers to those who do not identify with the sex
   they were assigned at birth. A person can realize they are transgender
   at any point in life.

--
   undergoing gender-affirming surgery.

   However, transitioning is not necessary to be transgender.

   To be an ally, people can use correct pronouns and avoid using
   offensive terminology. They can also support appropriate campaigns and
   listen to transgender people's experiences.

   Last medically reviewed on September 24, 2021
--
   ensure our content is accurate and current by reading our editorial
   policy.
     * Frequently asked questions about transgender people. (2016).
       https://transequality.org/issues/resources/frequently-asked-questio
       ns-about-transgender-people
     * Glossary of terms -- transgender. (n.d.).
       https://www.glaad.org/reference/transgender
     * Health services. (2021).
       https://www.cdc.gov/lgbthealth/health-services.htm
     * How do I know if I'm transgender? (n.d.).
       https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/gender-identity/transgender
       /how-do-i-know-if-im-transgender
     * LGBTQIA resource center glossary. (2020).
       https://lgbtqia.ucdavis.edu/educated/glossary
     * Puberty and physical intervention. (n.d.).
       https://gids.nhs.uk/puberty-and-physical-intervention
     * Respectful transgender terms for media use. (n.d.).
       http://www.basicrights.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/Trans-Media-R
       eference.pdf
     * Tips for allies of transgender people. (n.d.).
       https://www.glaad.org/transgender/allies
     * Transgender identities. (n.d.).
       https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/gender-identity/transgender
     * What is gender dysphoria? (2020).
       https://www.psychiatry.org/patients-families/gender-dysphoria/what-
--
       READ MORE
     *
     * Can transgender women have a period?
       Medically reviewed by Emelia Arquilla, DO
       Although transgender women will not get a period, they can
       experience symptoms similar to those of premenstrual syndrome, or
       PMS. Learn more here.
       READ MORE
     * Mental health for transgender men: What to know
       Medically reviewed by Francis Kuehnle, MSN, RN-BC
       Transgender men face a number of mental health concerns. Working
--
       find the support...
       READ MORE
     * What to know about mental health among transgender individuals
       Medically reviewed by Francis Kuehnle, MSN, RN-BC
       How prevalent are mental health conditions among transgender
       populations? Read on to learn more, such as which mental health
       conditions are common and...
