   or arts. Some academic fields are interested in debating how variations
   in gender diversity came to be, but the only thing that is clear is
   that transgender people are safer and happier when allowed to express
   themselves in a manner consistent with their gender identity. The best
   way to support transgender people is to let them lead their process of
   transition, which may include a need for others to respect their choice
   of name and pronouns, and reinforce their right to affirm their gender.
--
   instance, is tightly controlled and might be geographically or
   financially inaccessible for some people. Sometimes other health issues
   can prevent a transgender person from doing all the things they wish to
   do to reinforce their gender identity. The process of medically
   transitioning can also be a very gradual one and differs from person to
--
   and then choosing to stop (for example, using hormone therapy for a
   year, and then ceasing). It is important not to force expectations on
   transgender people but to allow them autonomy over their own lives and
   treat them with respect. If medically transitioning for example, is not
   something a person would like to pursue, this does not make them any
   `less' trans, but simply means their transition may look different from
   what is often expected of transgender people.

   Many statistics show alarmingly high rates of depression, anxiety and
   suicidality within the transgender community. Mental illness is often
   not associated directly with being transgender, but with the stigma and
   discrimination that transgender people face in daily life. These same
   statistics also show better mental health outcomes for those who are
   able to transition, as well as those who engage with transgender
   communities.

--
Key Points

     * Being transgender is not about being deceptive or "tricking"
       people, but presenting authentically to live a happier life .
     * How transgender people decide to affirm their gender is a personal
       choice. This may be a gradual process and may be limited by
       personal circumstances.
--
       which can be influenced by particular circumstances. It may take
       someone a while to find the most comfortable way of expressing
       their gender. Be respectful of where a transgender person is at,
       and be sensitive to how they are choosing to express themselves at
       a given time.
