
Protecting and Advancing Health Care for Transgender Adult Communities

--

Protecting and Advancing Health Care for Transgender Adult Communities

   The federal government and policymakers must address health disparities
   and barriers to care for transgender communities by implementing
   holistic policy solutions.
--
   outside a wound care clinic in Los Angeles, 2021. His stepdaughter is
   transgender. (Getty/Francine Orr/Los Angeles Times) A man guides his
   stepdaughter in a wheelchair through a parking lot outside a wound care
   clinic in Los Angeles, 2021. His stepdaughter is transgender.
   (Getty/Francine Orr/Los Angeles Times) A man guides his stepdaughter in
   a wheelchair through a parking lot outside a wound care clinic in Los
   Angeles, 2021. His stepdaughter is transgender. (Getty/Francine Orr/Los
   Angeles Times)
--

   Author’s note: “Transgender” is an umbrella term used to describe
   people whose gender identity and/or gender expression differ based on
   the sex they were assigned at birth.^1 The transgender community is not
   a monolith. Transgender people have diverse sexual orientations, gender
   expressions, and gender identities, and transgender identities do not
   depend on physical appearance or medical procedures.
--
   political, and economic factors, significantly affect the physical,
   mental, and behavioral health of transgender adults.^2 Research
   demonstrates that, compared with the general population, transgender
   people suffer from more chronic health conditions and experience higher
--
   and earlier onset of disabilities that can also lead to health
   issues.^3 In addition to poorer health outcomes, transgender people
   also encounter unique challenges and inequalities in their ability to
--
   economic crises spurred by the COVID-19 pandemic have only exacerbated
   existing disparities and barriers to care for transgender people,
   especially transgender people of color.^5
   ____________________
--

   While robust laws that protect transgender people from discrimination
   based on gender identity are essential to providing greater legal
--
   will be critical for improving health outcomes and the daily lives of
   the estimated 1.4 million^6 adults identifying as transgender in the
   United States.

   To examine the health conditions that transgender adults face, this
   report incorporates storytelling to elevate their lived experiences.
--
     * The status of the physical, behavioral, and mental health of
       transgender communities and barriers to accessing general and
       gender-affirming care
--

Health status of and barriers to care for transgender communities

   Transgender individuals are a high-risk population for mental and
   physical health problems and are consistently and systemically
--
   discrimination contribute to high rates of stress and—combined with
   adverse social, political, and economic risk factors—make transgender
   individuals significantly more likely to experience poor health
--
   providers, contribute to the large disparities in health between
   transgender and cisgender populations.

   For example, according to 2019 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance
   System (BRFSS) data, 3 in 5 transgender respondents report experiencing
   poor mental health at least one day in the past month—a rate 23
--
   day in the past month—a rate 18 percentage points higher than that of
   cisgender respondents. Transgender populations also face an increased
   likelihood of developing cardiovascular disease^8 as well as a higher
   likelihood of having asthma,^9 and their rates of chronic depression
   are more than twice that of cisgender populations.^10 Transgender
   respondents are significantly more likely to be living with HIV.^11 New
   research from the Williams Institute at the University of California,
   Los Angeles School of Law on the first transgender population-based
   national dataset developed through the TransPop study shows that 7
   percent^12 of transgender respondents have at some point been told by a
   doctor that they have a sexually transmitted infection (STI), compared
--
   The coronavirus pandemic has exacerbated these existing disparities.
   Elevated rates of asthma, regular smoking, and HIV among transgender
   populations make them more prone than the general population to
   experience a severe case of COVID-19.^13 For example, CAP analysis of
   2019 BRFSS data shows that 22 percent of transgender individuals have
   been told they have asthma, compared with 14 percent of cisgender
   individuals. One international survey of transgender individuals during
   the pandemic found that 50 percent of respondents had risk factors for
   a severe course of a COVID-19 infection.^14 Evidence demonstrates that
   the economic and social inequalities felt by transgender individuals
   also make them less able to access quality care^15 and more likely to
--
   and retail.^16 Isolation during the pandemic has also been particularly
   damaging to the mental health of transgender populations, who already
   face higher rates of mental health disparities,^17 and 1 in 3 reported
--

   High rates of mental and physical health conditions among transgender
   people^21 can be partly explained under a “minority stress” model, a
--
   or high-risk behaviors.^23 According to a nationally representative
   survey of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, and
   other sexual and gender-diverse individuals (LGBTQI+) conducted by the
   Center for American Progress,^24 2 in 3 transgender individuals have
   experienced some form of discrimination in the year prior, including 65
   percent of transgender people of color.^25 The 2015 U.S. Transgender
   Survey, conducted by the National Center for Transgender Equality,
   found that 46 percent of transgender individuals reported verbal
   harassment due to their gender identity in the past year,^26 while
--
   Both numbers increase significantly for Black, Middle Eastern, and
   American Indian transgender populations.^27

   TransPop data^28 show extensive discrimination in the day-to-day lives
   of transgender respondents. Thirty-eight percent of transgender
   respondents reported that they were often or sometimes called names or
--
   nonsuicidal self-injury^37 and attempted suicide: 42 percent of
   transgender individuals reported attempting suicide to cope with
   transgender-related discrimination.^38 Data from the TransPop survey
   reveal disparities in suicidal behavior between transgender and
   cisgender heterosexual individuals in terms of contemplating suicide
--
   of discrimination have been extensively linked to high rates of
   substance use. Transgender individuals who report experiencing high
   levels of discrimination are 3.59 times more likely to engage in binge
   drinking^42 than transgender individuals who report low levels of
   discrimination.^43 CAP analysis of data from the BRFSS shows that 59
   percent of transgender individuals report smoking tobacco some days or
   every day, compared with 39 percent of cisgender individuals.^44 (see
   Figure 5) TransPop data also show large disparities in drug use: 25
   percent of transgender respondents report using drugs other than
   alcohol at least twice a month, compared with 10 percent of cisgender
--
   compounded by economic difficulties.^45 BRFSS data reveal that
   transgender adults reported exercising in the past month at a rate of 8
   percent lower than cisgender respondents; were 9 percent less likely to
--
   The threat or presence of violence represents an additional determinant
   of health for many transgender people. In addition to causing physical
   injuries, the presence of violence against transgender people in many
   environments contributes to minority stress and mental health
--
   Lethal violence is widespread, and reported killings are increasing
   annually: In the United States, 29 transgender or gender-nonconforming
   people have been reported killed in 2021 so far, and 44 were killed in
--
   often do not accurately identify victims.^47 Black and Latina
   transgender women are consistently and drastically overrepresented
   among victims. Awareness and fear of potential victimization contribute
   to the many stresses that transgender people already face. This fear is
   justified by not only the possibility of lethal violence but also the
   ubiquity of nonlethal violence. The TransPop survey found that 48
   percent of transgender adults in the United States have been beaten,
   physically attacked, or sexually assaulted at least once since the age
   of 18^48—a rate 12 percentage points higher than that of cisgender
   heterosexual people. (see Figure 7) Nearly half of those transgender
   respondents experienced such violence three or more times. Sixty-one
   percent of transgender people reported being threatened with violence,
   and 76 percent reported verbal insults or abuse.^49
--
   Violence takes many forms. According to the TransPop survey, 32 percent
   of transgender people report experiencing intimate partner violence,^50
   a rate 7 percentage points higher than that of cisgender heterosexual
   people. Among cases of transgender women killed in the U.S. between
   2015 and 2020, almost half of identified suspects were intimate
--
   Washington, D.C., survey found that perpetrators of physical assault
   against transgender people include co-workers, students and school
   staff, police, incarcerated people and prison staff, and shelter
--
   Estimates of the prevalence of post-traumatic stress disorder in
   transgender population samples range from 18 percent to 61 percent,
   compared with 6.8 percent among the general adult population.^54
--

The context of transgender health disparities: Social determinants of
health and minority stress
--
   outcomes often arise from conditions that are not explicitly associated
   with the medical system or the nature of transgender identity but are
   driven by broader social determinants of health. These determinants
--
   and physical environments.^55 Oppressive structures such as racism,
   sexism, and transphobia influence where transgender people live, how
   they work, what food they can access, and how they are treated in their
--

   For transgender people, social determinants have concrete effects on
   health. High rates of poverty make medical care unaffordable. High
--
   consequent uninsurance. Criminalization and incarceration disrupt the
   continuity of care and expose transgender people to violence and
   trauma. Addressing the health disparities faced by transgender people
   requires addressing the many structural forms of exclusion,
--
   health problem that generates unique and pronounced disparities between
   transgender people and others.

   In context, then, transgender health is a multifaceted social,
   economic, and political issue. Furthermore, many transgender people
   are people of color, people with disabilities, sex workers, or
--
   determined health conditions are distinctive and
   intersectional. Efforts to address transgender health
   disparities therefore run the risk of leaving many behind if they do
   not center the effects of racism, misogyny, criminalization, ableism,
   and xenophobia on transgender people’s health.

--
   High rates of rejection from family members are a major contributor to
   poor health outcomes among transgender people. According to TransPop
   data, 44 percent of transgender individuals had a parent physically
   hurt them at least once during childhood,^57 compared with 25 percent
   of cisgender heterosexual respondents. Many transgender people report
   having a more strained or conflicted relationship with their parents
--
   with 22 percent), and many more report being bullied as a minor (46
   percent^59 compared with 17 percent). According to the U.S. Transgender
   Survey, 8 percent of transgender individuals report being kicked out of
   their home for being transgender, and 10 percent report running away
   from home.^60 This contributes to the fact that 30 percent of
   transgender individuals have experienced homelessness at some point in
   their lifetime—a number that increases to 51 percent among Black
   transgender women.^61 Family rejection is also associated with both the
   misuse of drugs and alcohol and attempted suicide.^62
--

   Broadly, transgender individuals encounter systemic and institutional
   discrimination and barriers to economic security. According to TransPop
--
   $25,000 annually, compared with 40 percent of cisgender heterosexual
   respondents. More than 1 in 4 transgender respondents from CAP’s 2020
   survey reported a household income of less than $25,000 annually.^63
   (see Figure 8) Staggeringly, a survey of transgender and
   gender-nonconforming individuals in the southeastern United States
--
   security and access to food have been proven to affect health status;
   one survey of transgender individuals in New York state found that
   those with incomes below the poverty line were almost twice as likely
--
   stress, leading to mental and physical ailments, but also make it more
   difficult for transgender individuals to afford quality care. More than
   half of transgender individuals reported postponing or not receiving
   necessary medical care in the year prior to CAP’s survey because they
   could not afford it, including 60 percent of transgender respondents of
   color. And 40 percent avoided preventive screenings in the year prior
   to CAP’s survey due to cost, including 31 percent of transgender
   respondents of color.^66
--
   to unemployment and employment discrimination.^67 In a 2020 CAP survey,
   27 percent of transgender respondents reported that they were currently
   unemployed.^68 More than half of transgender individuals reported that
   discrimination moderately or significantly affected their capacity to
--
   ability to retain employment in the year prior to the survey—with rates
   of reported discrimination significantly increasing for transgender
   people of color.^69 (see Figure 9) This discrimination leads to labor
   market exclusion and lower rates of insurance through employers, with
   transgender individuals reporting receiving employer-based insurance at
   a rate 7 percentage points lower than cisgender LGBTQI+ individuals.^70
   Overall, transgender adults report uninsurance rates that are 7
   percentage points higher than those of cisgender individuals.^71
--
   discrimination and exclusion, lack of legal protections, and family
   rejection are main contributors to transgender people experiencing
   disproportionately high rates of homelessness. Nearly one-third of
   transgender individuals report living in poverty—compared with just 12
   percent of the U.S. population^72—limiting their capacity to afford
   rent or mortgage payments. A majority of states lack legal protections
   in housing based on gender identity,^73 and 23 percent of transgender
   individuals—including 49 percent of Black transgender individuals—have
   reported experiencing some form of housing discrimination, including
   eviction and the denial of a home or apartment.^74 (see Figure 10) For
   example, CAP survey data show that 52 percent of transgender
   individuals reported that discrimination negatively affected their
--
   depression, anxiety, and suicide.^76 These effects are worsened due to
   the lack of safe shelter access. Among transgender individuals who have
   stayed in shelters, 70 percent have reported experiencing harassment,
   physical assault, or removal.^77 (see Figure 11) One in 4 transgender
   individuals experiencing homelessness report avoiding homeless shelters
   for fear of harassment, and an additional 6 percent have been denied
   access to shelter,^78 contributing to 63 percent of transgender people
   experiencing homelessness also being unsheltered.^79 Among unsheltered
   transgender populations, 60 percent are trimorbid, facing co-occurring
   physical, mental, and substance use disorders.^80 Unsheltered
   transgender people are more than seven times as likely to have police
   interactions and more than eight times as likely to be sent to jail or
   prison than transgender individuals who are sheltered. Those numbers
   increase among Black unsheltered transgender individuals.^81

--

   Transgender individuals are much more likely than their cisgender
   counterparts both to have negative encounters with law enforcement and
   to face mental and physical health concerns due to incarceration. Data
   from the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey show that of respondents who had
   a police encounter in the year prior, 58 percent experienced some form
   of mistreatment, including 61 percent of Black respondents and 71
   percent of Latino/a respondents.^82 Police often target transgender
   people in discretionary interactions. One study of Latina transgender
   women in Los Angeles found that 60 percent of those who had been
   stopped by the police had not violated any laws.^83 Most prominently,
   police often use the pretext that transgender individuals—particularly
   transgender women, and especially transgender women of color—are sex
   workers to create grounds to accost or detain them.^84 This practice is
--
   arrest and evidence of prostitution. These policies are so often used
   to target transgender people that they are referred to as “walking
   while trans” laws.^85 Staggeringly, 22 percent of individuals from the
   U.S. Transgender Survey who were arrested believe that they were
   arrested as a result of their gender identity,^86 likely contributing
   to CAP survey data showing that 50 percent of transgender individuals
   report avoiding police to avoid experiencing discrimination, compared
--
   Higher rates of contact with the criminal legal system mean that
   transgender individuals are incarcerated at a rate two times that of
   cisgender individuals.^87 These rates are even higher among transgender
   people of color; for example, Black transgender women are incarcerated
   at a rate 10 times that of the cisgender population. Incarcerated
   transgender people are often placed in housing in accordance with their
   gender assigned at birth; are nearly 10 times as likely to be assaulted
--
   staff and other incarcerated persons.^88 Many are also disallowed from
   continuing necessary transition care. One in 3 incarcerated transgender
   people who had been taking hormones prior to their incarceration were
--

   Immigrants in detention centers face similar difficulties. Transgender
   individuals being held by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
--
   times as likely to be sexually victimized than non-LGBT people in
   custody.^93 There are many reports of transgender individuals being
   denied access to basic health care, including hormone therapy and
--
   especially when specific medical procedures are required. Even more
   barriers to identification changes exist for transgender people with
   criminal records, who already face unique risks associated with
   discrimination and law enforcement interactions.^96 CAP’s survey shows
   that 66 percent of transgender respondents reported discrimination
   having an impact on their ability to obtain accurate identification
   documents in the year prior to the survey, compared with 23 percent of
   cisgender LGB respondents. TransPop data show that 1 in 2 transgender
   respondents have no identification with their authentic name, and just
   1 in 3 have any identification with their authentic pronouns. In
   practice, this may expose transgender people to harassment, violence,
   and administrative barriers when engaging with health care providers,
--
   identifications do not reflect their current name or gender, 25 percent
   of transgender people have been verbally harassed and 16 percent have
   been denied services or benefits.^97 Incongruence between
--

The context of barriers to care for transgender people: Medical system
hostility
--
   Hospitals, clinics, and doctors’ offices should be safe environments
   where people are given the medical care they need. For many transgender
   people, this is not the case. Even when providers do not outright
   refuse to treat transgender people, they may verbally abuse or
   physically harm their transgender patients.^99 Refusal and abuse of
   transgender people of color is even more common.^100

   For transgender people who use drugs, have disabilities, or experience
   mental illness, medical system involvement also carries the risk of
--
   Medical system hostility has led to a long-standing reliance by
   transgender communities on black markets and informal networks to
   obtain gender-affirming care—practices that have resurfaced as the
--

   Supporting transgender people through the medical system can only be
   achieved with the trust of transgender patients. This trust has been
   violated repeatedly, violently, and fatally—from the long-standing
   classification of transgender identity as a mental
   disorder^103 to the psychologically abusive use of pseudoscientific
--
   of public health responses to the HIV epidemic.^105 Medical systems
   must earn transgender people’s trust if they hope to effectively
   address health disparities.
--

   Transgender individuals face additional barriers due to a lack of
   cultural competency in how to provide treatment for transgender and
   gender-diverse populations. One in 3 transgender people reported having
   to teach their doctor about transgender people in order to receive
   appropriate care in the year prior to CAP’s survey.^106 And 15 percent
   report being asked “invasive or unnecessary questions about being
   transgender” not related to their reason for visiting.^107 Sixty-two
   percent of transgender respondents from the TransPop survey reported
   worrying about being judged because of their sexual orientation or
--
   of LGBT people beyond work related to HIV, likely contributing to
   transgender people’s inability to access affirming care.^109 Notably,
   just 20 percent of transgender respondents to TransPop report being
   very satisfied with the health care they receive, compared with 45
   percent of cisgender heterosexual respondents. And 20 percent of
   transgender respondents report having no place to go when sick or need
   advice about health,^110 compared with 10 percent of cisgender
--
   Discrimination also affects the ability to access services, as TransPop
   data show that 61 percent of transgender respondents report having a
   personal doctor or health care provider,^111 compared with 76 percent
   of cisgender heterosexual respondents. Transgender individuals are less
   likely to have access to reproductive health services,^112 and 37
--
   Further damaging are the high rates at which health care providers
   mistreat and abuse transgender adults. Nearly 1 in 2 transgender
   individuals, including 68 percent of transgender people of color,
   reported experiencing mistreatment at the hands of a provider in the
   year prior to CAP’s survey, including care refusal as well as verbal or
   physical abuse.^114 (see Figure 13) Twenty-eight percent of transgender
   individuals reported postponing or not receiving necessary medical
   care in the year prior to CAP’s survey for fear of experiencing
   discrimination, including 22 percent of transgender people of color.
   (see Figure 14) Stigma and discrimination from health care providers
   has also been explicitly linked to increased levels of substance use
   among transgender individuals.^115

--
   Existing barriers to accessing medically necessary gender-affirming
   care create additional obstacles. Forty-six percent of transgender
   individuals had a health insurer deny them gender-affirming care in the
   year prior to CAP’s survey.^116 Fifty-five percent of transgender
   individuals report needing to travel at least 10 miles in order to
   receive transition-related care,^117 which can make it inaccessible for
   many. Notably, while 78 percent of respondents to the U.S. Transgender
   Survey reported wanting hormone therapy at some point in their life,
--
   further action under the Biden administration. These recommendations
   are essential to building a more transgender-inclusive legal apparatus
   but should also be paired with in-practice policies set out below that
--
       of the law but is also supported by the large^125 majority^126 of
       Americans who oppose discrimination against transgender people. EO
       13988 granted each agency head 100 days to develop plans in
--
       wave of discriminatory, dangerous, and harmful state bills that aim
       to strip transgender people of their rights and ability to access
       to health care. As highlighted in the previous section,
       discrimination affects transgender communities across multiple,
       intersecting areas of life, including health care, employment, and
--
       discrimination in multiple key areas of life that jeopardize the
       ability of transgender people to access health care and maintain
       economic security. And it would provide legal recourse from
--
       are in Catholic hospitals, many of which follow
       transgender-exclusive ethical and religious directives from the
       U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.^128
--
   In 2016, the HHS Office for Civil Rights (OCR) issued a historic^131
   rule codifying nondiscrimination protections for transgender people in
   health facilities, programs, and activities that receive federal
   funding. The rule clarified^132 that the sex nondiscrimination
   protections in Section 1557 explicitly protect transgender individuals
   on the basis of gender identity and confirmed that individuals must
--
       discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity, gender
       expression, gender transition, transgender status, sex stereotypes,
       and sex characteristics (including intersex traits) and clarify the
--
       nondiscrimination in CMS rules for the Marketplace, Medicaid, and
       Medicare; and clarify protections for transgender and
       gender-diverse patients in health care and coverage by adopting
--
       and enforcement efforts that underscore the wide range of scenarios
       in which discrimination against transgender patients can occur and
       is prohibited under federal law. Finally, the HHS should publish
--

     ""]“I have a transgender son. My son needs hormone blockers, but we
     are at a standstill right now because our insurance company does not
     want to pay due to Trump’s proposal to take away protections for the
     transgender community. This is a life and death matter. Without
     hormone blockers, my son’s anxiety and anger will be out of control
--
   that gender-affirming health care, including surgical procedures, is
   medically necessary.^141 Historically, however, transgender-specific
   exclusions have been deployed by public and private health insurers to
   deny transgender people coverage for medically necessary care,
   including for care unrelated to gender affirmation.^142 For example,
   insurers would regularly deny transgender people services and
   procedures such as hormone therapy, mental health counseling,
--
   coverage appeared to be rapidly increasing,^145 and many insurers in
   the individual market removed transgender-specific exclusions, even
   after this part of the rule was enjoined in court.^146 However, the
--
   protections, resulting in a lack of clarity and life-threatening^147
   consequences for transgender people across the country.

--

     * Clarify that transgender exclusions do not comply with federal law.
       The HHS should issue guidance to state Medicaid directors stating
       that transgender-specific exclusions are out of compliance with
       federal law. This guidance should suggest enforcement mechanisms,
--
       gender-affirming care that are grounded in the most up-to-date
       medical standards of care in the field of transgender medicine.^149
     * Encourage state and federal regulatory bodies to adopt similar
--
       compliance with state- and federal-level gender identity
       nondiscrimination requirements.^150 Because transgender consumers
       continue to find it challenging to obtain information from insurers
--
       federal government should also invest additional funding in
       LGBTQI-specific outreach and enrollment support for transgender
       consumers in the individual health insurance market and Medicaid.
--
       gender-affirming care and services regarded as medically necessary
       by the World Professional Association for Transgender Health’s
       Standards of Care.^155 Partly or wholly excluding transgender
       health care from employer insurance plans constitutes
--
       restrictions and direct carriers to cover comprehensive
       gender-affirming care through the FEHB to transgender employees,
       including beneficiaries and eligible dependents.^157 Furthermore,
--
       well as any other restrictions that limit the ability of
       transgender veterans to access gender-affirming care.^160
     * Explicitly clarify protections for transgender patients in health
       care. Any notice-and-comment rule-making related to Section 1557
       should clarify protections for transgender and gender-diverse
       patients in health care and coverage. Through the rule, enforcement
--
       HHS should provide clear guidance on what it means for covered
       entities and providers not to discriminate against transgender
       patients and the wide range of scenarios in which discrimination
--
       and oversight. While studies show that insurers have largely moved
       away from transgender-specific categorical exclusions in plans,
       insurers continue to discriminatorily reject coverage.^161 As such,
--
       lessen that burden. The OCR should simultaneously implement
       awareness campaigns to ensure that transgender people are aware of
       their right to nondiscrimination and lift up highly valuable
--

     ""]“Despite having employer health care coverage, a transgender
     woman from Boulder County, Colorado, with a significant family
--
   Grants issued by the HHS total more than $500 billion annually^162 and
   fund a wide array of programs and services that transgender people rely
   on—including those addressing substance use and mental health,
--

   Transgender communities have been hit especially hard by the health,
   economic, and social effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.^170 In addition
   to being at greater risk of suffering severe illness from the
   coronavirus,^171 transgender people reported experiencing
   disproportionately high rates of serious financial hardship and
--

     * Integrate targeted relief for transgender communities into
       coronavirus testing, vaccine, and recovery efforts. During the
--
       addressing the pandemic.^173 These actions should be used as an
       opportunity to integrate targeted relief to support transgender
       communities. For example, federal and state governments should
--
       to issue vaccine distribution plans and outreach campaigns
       targeting transgender communities; share information about
       accessing testing, vaccines, and the right to receive services free
--
       leave policy. The administration should continue to support efforts
       to expand paid medical and family leave for transgender people by
       adopting an inclusive definition of chosen-family caregiving
--
     * Enhance data collection to shed light on the experiences of
       transgender people during the COVID-19 pandemic. There are numerous
       steps that the HHS, with the support of the COVID-19 Health Equity
       Task Force, should take to support data collection that will
       provide greater clarity on the experiences of transgender people
       during the pandemic.^177 The existing COVID-19 laboratory data
--
       surveillance. Taking these steps is essential to collect more
       accurate information on transgender peoples’ health needs, bring
       visibility to their experiences throughout the pandemic, and help
--
   binary model of sex and gender that fails to capture health outcomes
   for transgender and other gender-diverse populations.^182 To better
   understand and address health disparities that transgender communities
   face, it is imperative that federal agencies, including the HHS, the
--
   and designing evidence-based policy solutions to promote equity and
   reduce existing disparities that transgender communities face across
   key areas of life.^183
--
       that promote security and confidentiality. These actions should
       include efforts to meaningfully engage directly with transgender
       communities and organizations for the purposes of qualitative and
--

   Gender-incongruent forms of identification expose transgender people to
   a range of adverse outcomes and pose a significant barrier to accessing
--
   Unfortunately, many states^184 still impose intrusive and burdensome
   requirements^185 for transgender people to update their IDs—such as
   providing proof of surgery or court orders—to amend driver’s licenses
--
   Workforce,^186 directing relevant agencies to take steps to facilitate
   access to identity credentials that meet the needs of transgender,
   gender-nonconforming, and nonbinary employees and to reduce unnecessary
--

     * Facilitate the process through which transgender people acquire
       accurate IDs. As part of the EO on Advancing Racial Equity and
--
       medical certification. Gender-incongruent identification increases
       the risk of exposing transgender people to discrimination,
       harassment, violence, and administrative barriers when engaging in
       a variety of settings. As such, states should also modernize their
       policies or processes for transgender people to access
       identification—such as driver’s licenses, birth certificates, and
--
   Nondiscrimination protections alone cannot rectify the health
   consequences of the long-standing structural exclusion that transgender
   people face. Access to legal recourse in instances of discrimination in
--
   such as Washington, D.C. Despite the district having some of the most
   transgender-inclusive health care protections in the country,^190 a DC
   Trans Coalition survey found that transgender people in Washington,
   D.C., were much more likely to be uninsured, HIV positive, use illicit
   substances, or experience suicidality, with transgender people of color
   reporting higher rates in all these categories.^191 The organization’s
--
   care” was the community’s top priority.^192 A further study of sex
   workers in Washington, D.C., most of whom were transgender, identified
   sex work criminalization and housing insecurity as the primary barriers
--
   recognized as holistically beneficial to those who seek it out,^194 the
   pressing health care needs of many transgender people include care for
   chronic conditions,^195 care associated with disability, and mental
   health treatment^196—and not all transgender people would choose to
   medically transition even if this care were available.
--
   Meanwhile, many health providers lack basic knowledge of the health
   experiences of transgender people and must increase their cultural
   competence to effectively serve their transgender patients. According
   to CAP’s nationally representative survey, in the year prior, 33
   percent of transgender respondents reported having to teach their
   doctor or provider about transgender people in order to receive
   appropriate care; 32 percent of respondents reported misgendering by
   doctors or providers; and 38 percent reported providers being visibly
   uncomfortable due to actual or perceived gender identity. Transgender
   people of color faced even higher rates of mistreatment in all these
--
   foster a holistically inclusive and supporting health care environment
   for transgender and gender-nonconforming patients.

Increase funding for programs that advance the health of transgender
communities
--
   stress, violence, and various social determinants of health have on the
   physical, mental, and behavioral health of transgender adults. In
   addition to the nondiscrimination regulatory and in-practice policies
--
   address the myriad harms, barriers to care, and disparities that
   transgender communities face. For example,^201 the Biden
   administration, Congress, and state and local governments should
--
   approach; LGBTQI+ community health centers; affordable housing models
   that are explicitly designed for transgender communities; efforts to
   combat violence and improve attitudes toward transgender people;^202
   collaborative, restorative justice, and community-centered
--
   Given the widespread discrimination and negative experiences that
   transgender people encounter in health settings, as well as the
   historic pathologizing of transgender people by the medical community,
   it is crucial for health care providers to communicate to transgender
   patients that they are entering an inclusive and affirming environment
--
   patient handouts and providers’ websites.^207 Additionally, materials
   specific to the needs of transgender patients related to general care
   and gender-affirming care should be available and visible. Where
   possible, patient navigation services for transgender patients seeking
   gender-affirming care should be provided.
--
   It is imperative that both administrative staff and clinical providers
   receive annual cultural competency training related to transgender and
   gender-diverse identities and terminology, as well as how to avoid
--
   medical records, and generally creating an affirming environment for
   transgender and nonbinary patients.^210 To ensure implementation, the
   government should include high-quality LGBTQI+ cultural competency as a
--
Adopt clinical standards and education on the health experiences and needs of
transgender communities

--
   knowledge and cultural competence concerning the experiences and health
   care needs of transgender people; a lack of mental and behavioral
   health specialist services; and a lack of awareness regarding health
--
   providers should receive robust medical training and learn education
   curricula about the health care risks and needs of transgender
   populations located within a deeper understanding of the social,
--
   standards of clinical care from expert bodies, such as the World
   Professional Association for Transgender Health, and that medical
   education institutions explicitly adopt these materials into their
--
   continuously modified to be inclusive of and better aligned with
   meeting the needs of transgender and gender-diverse patients.^214

--
   The historical and continued hostility of insurers and providers has
   led many transgender people to rely on community health centers, which
   were often created by LGBTQI+ communities themselves. While these
--
   populations.^215 In these areas, support for existing, trusted services
   is essential to transgender health. Federal funding for community
   health centers can be increased through the Health Resources and
--
   services, and Title X programs have historically been crucial for
   transgender people due to their low-barrier provision of STI treatment
   and prevention services, basic health maintenance, and gender-affirming
   care.^219 In 2018, for example, 100 Planned Parenthood
   affiliates provided hormone therapy for transgender people,^220 and
   many Title X providers offer comprehensive and targeted care for
--

Develop policies to prevent violence against transgender people

   The Biden administration has created an Interagency Working Group on
   Safety, Inclusion, and Opportunity for Transgender Americans, which
   is intended in part to address violence against transgender people and
   the factors contributing to it.^224 The establishment of this group
--

   Intimate partner violence presents a complex problem for transgender
   people—and one which law enforcement agencies are not equipped to
--
   creating special vulnerabilities to financial abuse.^226  Comprehensive
   efforts to improve the economic security of transgender people would
   begin to address these factors. Expanded funding for affirming services
--
   protections in emergency services such as shelters would mitigate the
   immediate effects of these issues by increasing transgender survivors’
   access to support systems.

   Addressing violence against transgender sex workers is complicated by
   the effects of sex work criminalization on survivors’ access to support
--

   Policies to prevent violence against transgender people must also
   address the direct role of law enforcement and carceral systems in
   perpetrating this violence. Transgender people are seven times more
   likely than cisgender people to experience physical violence when
--
   through broader efforts to decrease law enforcement interactions and
   criminal legal system involvement among transgender people, including
   policies advancing the decriminalization of sex work, rather than
--

   CDC data reveal that transgender communities, particularly
   Black/African American transgender people, Hispanic/Latino transgender
   people, and transgender women in general, are disproportionately
   affected by HIV. In 2018, 2 percent of all new HIV diagnoses in the
   United States and dependent areas were among transgender people, with
   disproportionate new HIV diagnoses among Black/African American
   transgender women and Black/African American transgender men, as well
   as among transgender people aged 25 to 34.^230 HIV prevalence is
   roughly 20 times higher among transgender people, and roughly 30 times
   higher among transgender women, than among the general population.^231
   To address existing disparities and continue working toward the HHS’s
--
   approach that recognizes the structural and systemic barriers that lead
   to disproportionate effects among transgender communities of color.
   These barriers include the criminalization of sex work, drug use, and
   HIV status, which prevent many transgender people from safely engaging
   with public health initiatives.^233 The administration must adopt an
--
   would reduce the harms associated with hormone injection, substance
   use, HIV, and hepatitis C among transgender people who cannot easily
   access safe supplies.^238
--
   Discrimination, stigma, poverty, and violence significantly affect the
   physical, mental, and behavioral health of transgender adults and drive
   disparities in access to health insurance and adequate care. To improve
   these outcomes and the experiences of transgender patients in health
   care settings, it is critical to adopt both robust nondiscrimination
--
   system. Given the current slate of discriminatory and harmful
   state-level bills that seek to strip transgender youth and adults of
   their rights and access to health care, fully implementing these
--
   This sample includes data from 1,528 LGBTQI+-identifying individuals,
   including 121 transgender individuals, collected with assistance from
   NORC at the University of Chicago using their AmeriSpeak panel. A
--
   report^246 and interactive.^247 All statistics from CAP’s survey
   comparing transgender respondents with cisgender LGBTQI+ respondents
   are significant at the 0.05 level.
--
   individual’s gender identity, creating a sample of 232,088 cisgender
   individuals and 955 transgender individuals. This data is weighted to
   account for probability of selection, nonresponse bias, and U.S.
   population characteristics. All statistics comparing transgender
   respondents with cisgender respondents are significant at the 0.05
--

   TransPop is the first nationally representative survey of transgender
   individuals in the United States. Conducted over the phone and mail by
   Gallup from 2016 to 2018, the TransPop study was a national probability
   sample of 1,436 adults over the age of 18, including 274 transgender
   individuals and 1,040 cisgender heterosexual individuals. The sample
--
   from its TransPop and Generations surveys in June 2021.^250 This
   overview included the vast majority of statistics for transgender
   respondents to TransPop cited in this report. Where a statistic cited
--
   for it. In addition, Feldman and others recently released a study
   comparing health and health care access of transgender and cisgender
   individuals, also cited in this report and an important resource for
--
   statistic comes from original CAP data analysis. All comparisons
   between transgender and cisgender heterosexual individuals from
   TransPop are significant at the 0.1 level.
--
   the right to nondiscrimination in health care and filing complaints.
     * National Center for Transgender Equality: Know Your Rights | Health
       Care^252
     * Lambda Legal: Know Your Rights^253
     * Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund: Trans Health
       Project^254
--
    1. For other definitions and explanations, see the National Center for
       Transgender Equality, “Understanding Transgender People: The
       Basics,” available at
--
       r-people-the-basics (last accessed July 2021); The Association of
       LGBTQ Journalists, “Transgender,” available at
       https://www.nlgja.org/stylebook/transgender/ (last accessed July
       2021).
--
       Jennifer Kates and others, “Health and Access to Care and Coverage
       for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Individuals in
       the U.S.” (San Francisco: Kaiser Family Foundation, 2018),
--
       -coverage-lgbt-individuals-in-the-us-health-challenges/; S.E. James
       and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey”
       (Washington: National Center for Transgender Equality, 2016),
       available at
--
    3. Sari L. Reisner and others, “Global Health Burden and Needs of
       Transgender Populations: A Review,” The Lancet Global Health 388
       (10042) (2016): 412–436, available at
--
       00684-X/fulltext; Sari Reisner, “Meeting the Health Care Needs of
       Transgender People,” The Fenway Institute, available at
       https://www.lgbtqiahealtheducation.org/wp-content/uploads/Sari-slid
       es_final1.pdf (last accessed June 2021); Asa E. Radix, “Addressing
       Needs of Transgender Patients: The Role of Family Physicians,” The
       Journal of the American Board of Family Medicine 33 (2) (2020):
--
       and others, “Demographics, Insurance Coverage, and Access to Care
       Among Transgender Adults,” Kaiser Family Foundation, October 21,
       2020, available at
       https://www.kff.org/health-reform/issue-brief/demographics-insuranc
       e-coverage-and-access-to-care-among-transgender-adults/; Linda M.
       Wesp and others, “Intersectionality Research for Transgender Health
       Justice: A Theory-Driven Conceptual Framework for Structural
       Analysis of Transgender Health Inequities,” Transgender Health 4
       (1) (2019): 287–296, available at
--
    5. Human Rights Campaign, “The Economic Impact of COVID-19 Intensifies
       for Transgender and LGBTQ Communities of Color” (Washington: 2020),
       available at
--
       rans-POC-061520.pdf.
    6. The Williams Institute, “How Many Adults Identify as Transgender in
       the United States?” (Los Angeles, CA: University of California, Los
--
   10. Koma and others, “Demographics, Insurance Coverage, and Access to
       Care Among Transgender Adults.”
   11. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, “HIV Infection, Risk,
       Prevention, and Testing Behaviors Among Transgender Women—National
       HIV Behavioral Surveillance, 7 U.S. Cities, 2019–2020,”
--
   13. See Tonia C. Poteat and others, “COVID-19 Vulnerability of
       Transgender Women With and Without HIV Infection in the Eastern and
       Southern U.S.,” medRxiv 1 (2020), available at
--
       Herman and Kathryn O’Neill, “Vulnerabilities to COVID-19 Among
       Transgender Adults in the US” (Los Angeles: The Williams Institute,
       2020), available at
--
   14. Andreas Koehler and others, “How the COVID-19 pandemic affects
       transgender health care in upper-middle-income and high-income
       countries – A worldwide, cross-sectional survey,” medRxiv (2020),
--
   15. Julie Woulfe and Melina Wald, “The Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic
       on the Transgender and Non-Binary Community” (New York: Columbia
       University Department of Psychiatry, 2020), available at
--
       COVID-19 environment on mental health, gender affirming services
       and socioeconomic loss in a global sample of transgender and
       non-binary people: a structural equation modelling,” BMJ Global
--
       https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33753401/.
   18. Koehler and others, “How the COVID-19 pandemic affects transgender
       health care in upper-middle-income and high-income countries.”
   19. See Koehler and others, “How the COVID-19 pandemic affects
       transgender health care in upper-middle-income and high-income
       countries”; Restar and others, “Characterising the impact of
       COVID-19 environment on mental health, gender affirming services
       and socioeconomic loss in a global sample of transgender and
       non-binary people: a structural equation modelling.”
   20. Alyssa Fowers and William Wan, “‘The volume has been turned up on
       everything’: Pandemic places alarming pressure on transgender
       mental health,” The Washington Post, August 18, 2020, available at
--
       Chicago. Survey results are on file with the authors. Unless
       otherwise indicated, all statistics on transgender individuals
       differ significantly from those of cisgender LGBTQ respondents at
--
       people-us-2020-survey-results/.
   26. James and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey.”
   27. Gia Elise Barboza, Silvia Dominguez, and Elena Chace, “Physical
       victimization, gender identity and suicide risk among transgender
       men and women,” Preventive Medicine Reports 4 (2016): 385–390,
--
   28. Meyer, Wilson, and O’Neill, “LGBTQ People in the US”; TransPop,
       “U.S. Transgender Population Health Survey,” available at
       http://www.transpop.org/ (last accessed July 2021).
--
   33. Sari L. Reisner and others, “Discriminatory experiences associated
       with posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms among transgender
       adults,” Journal of Counseling Psychology 63 (5) (2016): 509–519,
--
   34. Cary L. Klemmer, Sean Arayasirikul, Henry F. Raymond,
       “Transphobia-Based Violence, Depression, and Anxiety in Transgender
       Women: The Role of Body Satisfaction,” Journal of Interpersonal
--
   35. Larry Nuttbrock and others, “Gender Abuse and Major Depression
       Among Transgender Women: A Prospective Study of Vulnerability and
       Resilience,” American Journal of Public Health 104 (11) (2014):
--
   36. Walter O. Bockting and others, “Stigma, Mental Health, and
       Resilience in an Online Sample of the US Transgender Population,”
       American Journal of Public Health 103 (5) (2013): 943–951,
--
       stress, resilience factors, and mental health in a Midwestern U.S.
       transgender and gender-nonconforming population,” International
       Journal of Transgenderism 18 (4) (2017): 433–445, available at
       https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/15532739.2017.1365034.
   38. Augustus Klein and Sarit A. Golub, “Family Rejection as a Predictor
       of Suicide Attempts and Substance Misuse Among Transgender and
       Gender Nonconforming Adults,” LGBT Health 3 (3) (2016): 193–199,
--
   39. Meyer, Wilson, and O’Neill, “LGBTQ People in the US”; TransPop,
       “U.S. Transgender Population Health Survey,” available at
       http://www.transpop.org/ (last accessed July 2021).
--
       sexual orientation and gender identity, providing a total sample of
       955 transgender individuals and 230,459 cisgender individuals. All
       percentages included that create a comparison between transgender
       and cisgender respondents are significant at the 0.01 level.
   45. See Karen I. Fredriksen-Goldsen and others, “Physical and Mental
       Health of Transgender Older Adults: An At-Risk and Underserved
       Population,” The Gerontologist 54 (3) (2014): 488–500, available
--
       Transwomen in San Francisco.”
   46. Human Rights Campaign, “Fatal Violence Against the Transgender and
       Gender Non-Conforming Community in 2021,” available at
--
       2021).
   47. Natalee Seely, “Reporting on transgender victims of homicide:
       Practices of misgendering, sourcing and transparency,” Newspaper
--
   51. Samantha Schmidt, Brittany Renee Mayes, and Nia Decaille,
       “Surviving as a Black transgender woman in Baton Rouge,” The
       Washington Post, June 29, 2021, available
       at https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2021/06/28/transgender-w
       omen-homicides-intimate-partner-violence/.
--
   54. Reisner and others, “Discriminatory experiences associated with
       posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms among transgender adults.”
   55. Samantha Artiga and Elizabeth Hinton, “Beyond Health Care: The Role
--
   59. Ibid.
   60. James and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey.”
   61. Ibid.
   62. Klein and Golub, “Family Rejection as a Predictor of Suicide
       Attempts and Substance Misuse Among Transgender and Gender
       Nonconforming Adults.”
--
   64. Jennifer Russomanno and Jennifer M. Jabson Tree, “Food insecurity
       and food pantry use among transgender and gender non-conforming
       people in the Southeast United States,” BioMed Central Public
--
       20-08684-8.
   65. Somjen Frazer and Erin Howe, “Transgender health and economic
       insecurity: A report from the 2015 LGBT Health and Human Services
--
       LGBTQ People in the US.”
   67. James and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey.”
   68. Mahowald, Brady, and Medina, “Discrimination and Experiences Among
--
   71. Koma and others, “Demographics, Insurance Coverage, and Access to
       Care Among Transgender Adults.”
   72. James and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey.”
   73. Movement Advancement Project, “Equality Maps: Nondiscrimination
--
       accessed June 2021).
   74. James and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey”;
       Freddie Mac, “The LGBT Community: Buying and Renting Homes,” May
--
   76. Ibid.
   77. James and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey.”
   78. Ibid.
   79. National Alliance to End Homelessness, “Transgender Homeless Adults
       & Unsheltered Homelessness: What the Data Tell Us” (Washington:
--
   81. Ibid.
   82. and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey.”
   83. Frank H. Galvan and Mohsen Bazargan, “Interactions of Latina
       Transgender Women with Law Enforcement” (Los Angeles: The Williams
       Institute, 2012), available at
--
   84. Leonore F. Carpenter and R. Barrett Marshall, “Walking While Trans:
       Profiling of Transgender Women by Law Enforcement, and the Problem
       of Proof,” William & Mary Journal of Women and the Law 24 (1)
--
       w/index.html.
   86. James and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey.”
   87. National Center for Transgender Equality, “LGBTQ People Behind
       Bars: A Guide to Understanding the Issues Facing Transgender
       Prisoners and Their Legal Rights” (Washington: 2018), available
--
   88. Ibid.
   89. James and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey.”
   90. Sharita Gruberg, “ICE’s Rejection of Its Own Rules Is Placing LGBT
--
   91. Ibid.
   92. James and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey.”
   93. Gruberg, “ICE’s Rejection of Its Own Rules Is Placing LGBT
--
       medical and mental health care to LGBTQ people and people living
       with HIV in immigration detention facilities,” Transgender Law
       Center, September 25, 2019, available at
       http://transgenderlawcenter.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Complain
       t-on-LGBTQ-Detention-Final-October.pdf.
--
       iving-hiv/.
   97. James and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey.”
   98. See Arjee Restar and others, “Legal gender marker and name change
--
       “Gender-concordant identity documents and mental health among
       transgender adults in the USA: a cross-sectional study,” Lancet
       Public Health 5 (2020): 196–203, available at
--
       during the pandemic,” Insider, April 17, 2020, available at
       https://www.insider.com/transgender-people-turn-to-grey-market-for-
       hormones-during-pandemic-2020-4.
--
       in 2020.”
   107. James and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender
       Survey.”
--
   109. Jennifer Kates and others, “Health and Access to Care and Coverage
       for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Individuals in
       the U.S.” (San Francisco: Kaiser Family Foundation, 2018),
--
   111. Jamie L. Feldman and others, “Health and health care access in the
       US transgender population health (TransPop) survey,” Andrology
       (2021): 1‑12, available at https://doi.org/10.1111/andr.13052.
--
       “Understanding the Well-Being of LGBTQI+ Populations.”
   113. James and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender
       Survey.”
--
       LGBTQ People in the US.”
   117. James and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender
       Survey.”
--
       Republicans, Oppose Discrimination Against Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual
       and Transgender People by Employers and Health Care Providers,”
       June 24, 2020, available at
--
       ding-republicans-oppose-discrimination-against-lesbian-gay-bisexual
       -and-transgender-people-by-employers-and-health-care-providers/.
   126. Public Religion Research Institute, “Is Religious Liberty a Shield
--
   141. For example, see the American College of Obstetricians and
       Gynecologists, “Health Care for Transgender and Gender Diverse
       Individuals” (Washington: 2021), available at
       https://www.acog.org/clinical/clinical-guidance/committee-opinion/a
       rticles/2021/03/health-care-for-transgender-and-gender-diverse-indi
       viduals; American Medical Association, “Health insurance coverage
       for gender-affirming care of transgender patients” (Chicago: 2019),
       available at
       https://www.ama-assn.org/system/files/2019-03/transgender-coverage-
       issue-brief.pdf); Endocrine Society, “Position Statement:
       Transgender Health” (Washington: 2020), available at
       https://www.endocrine.org/advocacy/position-statements/transgender-
       health; American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, “AACAP
       Statement Responding to Efforts to ban Evidence-Based Care for
       Transgender and Gender Diverse Youth,” Press release, November 8,
       2019, available at
       https://www.aacap.org/AACAP/Latest_News/AACAP_Statement_Responding_
       to_Efforts-to_ban_Evidence-Based_Care_for_Transgender_and_Gender_Di
       verse.aspx; American Public Health Association, “Promoting
       Transgender and Gender Minority Health through Inclusive Policies
       and Practices,” November 1, 2016, available at
       https://apha.org/policies-and-advocacy/public-health-policy-stateme
       nts/policy-database/2017/01/26/promoting-transgender-and-gender-min
       ority-health-through-inclusive-policies-and-practices.
--
       Baker, “LGBT Protections in Affordable Care Act Section 1557”;
       Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund, “Memorandum Re:
       Liability for transgender health care exclusions in employer health
       plans” (New York: 2021), available at
       https://transhealthproject.org/documents/46/Memo_on_transgender_hea
       lth_exclusions.pdf.
--
   148. For information on medical necessity determinations and legal
       resources, see Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund,
       “Health Insurance – Understanding a Denial,” available at
--
       2021); Noah E. Lewis, “What Health Care Providers Need to Know
       about Transgender Legal Issues,” available at
       https://fenwayhealth.org/wp-content/uploads/15a.-Legal-Issues.pdf
--
       (last accessed June 2021).
   155. World Professional Association for Transgender Health,
       “Transgender Medical Benefits” (Minneapolis: 2018), available at
       https://www.wpath.org/media/cms/Documents/Public%20Policies/2018/6_
       June/Transgender%20Medical%20Benefits.pdf; World Professional
       Association for Transgender Health, “Position Statement on Medical
       Necessity of Treatment, Sex Reassignment, and Insurance Coverage in
--
       https://s3.amazonaws.com/amo_hub_content/Association140/files/wpATH
       -Position-on-Medical-Necessity-12-21-2016.pdf; Transgender Legal
       Defense and Education Fund, “Medical Necessity Literature Reviews,”
--
   156. Legal Defense and Education Fund, “Memorandum Re: Liability for
       transgender health care exclusions in employer health plans.”
   157. The White House, “Executive Order on Diversity, Equity, Inclusion,
--
       ty-in-the-federal-workforce/.
   158. U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, “Transgender Care
       Coordination External Frequently Asked Questions,” available at
       https://www.patientcare.va.gov/LGBT/docs/Transgender-Care-External-
       FAQs-18June21.pdf (last accessed July 2021).
--
       accessed July 2021).
   160. National Center for Transgender Equality, “Department of Veterans
       Affairs Begins Work to Expand Access to Health Care to Transgender
       Veterans,” available at
       https://transequality.org/blog/department-of-veterans-affairs-begin
       s-work-to-expand-access-to-health-care-to-transgender (last
       accessed July 2021).
   161. Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund, “Memorandum Re:
       Liability for transgender health care exclusions in employer health
       plans.”
--
   170. Human Rights Campaign, “The Economic Impact of COVID-19
       Intensifies for Transgender and LGBTQ Communities of Color”
       (Washington: 2020), available at
--
       Laws and Policies.”
   185. National Center for Transgender Equality, “Identity Documents and
       Privacy,” available at
--
   191. DC Trans Coalition, “Access DENIED.”
   192. DC Trans Coalition, “The 2011-2012 Washington D.C. Transgender
       Community Needs Assessment” (Washington: 2014), available at
--
   194. Cornell University, “What does the scholarly research say about
       the effect of gender transition on transgender well-being?”,
       available at
--
   195. Ashleigh J. Rich and others, “Non-HIV chronic disease burden among
       transgender populations globally: A systematic review and narrative
       synthesis,” Preventive Medicine Reports 20 (2020), available at
--
       orms-and-Policy-Brief.pdf; Lambda Legal, “Creating Equal Access to
       Quality Health Care for Transgender Patients: Transgender-Affirming
       Hospital Policies” (Washington: 2013), available at
       https://www.lambdalegal.org/publications/fs_transgender-affirming-h
       ospital-policies; National LGBT Health Education Center,
       “Affirmative Care for Transgender and Gender Non-Conforming People:
       Best Practices for Front-line Health Care Staff” (Boston: The
--
       https://www.lgbtqiahealtheducation.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/A
       ffirmative-Care-for-Transgender-and-Gender-Non-conforming-People-Be
       st-Practices-for-Front-line-Health-Care-Staff.pdf.
   199. Cornell University, “What does the scholarly research say about
       the effect of gender transition on transgender well-being?”
   200. See, for example, Lambda Legal, “Creating Equal Access to Quality
       Health Care for Transgender Patients.”
   201. See also Caroline Medina and others, “Improving the Lives and
--
   202. Andrew R. Flores and others, “Challenged expectations: Mere
       exposure effects on attitudes about transgender people and rights,”
       Political Psychology 39 (1) (2018): 197–216.
--
   209. National LGBT Health Education Center, “Affirmative Care for
       Transgender and Gender Non-Conforming People: Best Practices for
       Front-line Health Care Staff.”
--
   224. The White House, “Biden-Harris Administration Advances Equality
       for Transgender Americans,” Press release, June 30, 2021, available
       at
--
       (last accessed July 2021).
   226. Beverly Tilley and others, “Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender,
       Queer and HIV-Affected Hate and Intimate Partner Violence in 2017”
--
       https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6424363/.
   228. Anti-Violence Project, “Hate Violence Against Transgender
       Communities,” available at
--
       df (last accessed July 2021).
   229. James and others, “The Report of the 2015 U.S. Transgender
       Survey.”
   230. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, “HIV and Transgender
       People: HIV Diagnoses,” available at
       https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/group/gender/transgender/hiv-diagnoses.html
       (last accessed May 2021).
   231. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, “HIV and Transgender
       Communities” (Washington: 2019), available at
       https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/pdf/policies/cdc-hiv-transgender-brief.pdf.
   232. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, “Ending the HIV
--
   249. Meyer, Wilson, and O’Neill, “LGBTQ People in the US”; TransPop,
       “U.S. Transgender Population Health Survey,” available at
       http://www.transpop.org/ (last accessed July 2021); for access to
--
   251. Feldman and others, “Health and health care access in the US
       transgender population health (TransPop) survey.”
   252. National Center for Transgender Equality, “Know Your Rights in
       Health Care,” available at
--
       2021).
   254. Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund, “Trans Health
       Project,” available at
       https://transgenderlegal.org/our-work/trans-health-project/ (last
       accessed June 2021).
--
   Hispanic LGBTQ Individuals Encounter Heightened Discrimination A block
   party for the local lesbian, gay, and transgender youth of the
   neighborhood, July 2017. (Getty/Andrew Lichtenstein) A block party for
   the local lesbian, gay, and transgender youth of the neighborhood, July
   2017. (Getty/Andrew Lichtenstein)
--

   Fact Sheet: Protecting and Advancing Health Care for Transgender Adult
   Communities

Fact Sheet: Protecting and Advancing Health Care for Transgender Adult
Communities
