Skip to content
An official website of the United States Government Here's how you know

Official websites use .gov

A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United
States.

Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share
sensitive information only on official, secure websites.

  • Newsroom
  • Business
  • Employees
  • Job Seekers
  • Students
  • Travelers
  • Visas

Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr GovDelivery

  • Menu
  • [Logo_White]State Department Home
  • search

  • State Department Home
  • Policy Issues
      □ Back
      □ Policy Issues

        Anti-Corruption and Transparency
        Arms Control and Nonproliferation
        Climate and Environment
        Climate Crisis
        Combating Drugs and Crime
        Countering Terrorism
        COVID-19 Response and Recovery
        Cyber Issues
        Disarming Disinformation
        Economic Prosperity and Trade Policy
        Energy
        Global Health
        Global Women’s Issues
        Holding Russia and Belarus to Account
        Human Rights and Democracy
        Human Trafficking
        The Ocean and Polar Affairs
        Refugee and Humanitarian Assistance
        Science, Technology, and Innovation
        Treaties and International Agreements
        United with Ukraine
  • Countries & Areas
      □ Back
      □ Countries & Areas

        Search for country or area [A                               ]
  • Bureaus & Offices
      □ Back
      □ Bureaus & Offices

          ☆ The Secretary of State
              ○ The Secretary of State
              ○ The Secretary of State
              ○ Bureau of Global Health Security and Diplomacy
              ○ Bureau of Intelligence and Research
              ○ Bureau of Legislative Affairs
              ○ Counselor of the Department
              ○ Executive Secretariat
              ○ Office of the Chief of Protocol
              ○ Office of Civil Rights
              ○ Office of Diversity and Inclusion
              ○ Office of Global Women’s Issues
              ○ Office of the Legal Adviser
              ○ Office of the Ombudsman
              ○ Office of the Special Envoy for Critical and Emerging
                Technology
              ○ Office of the U.S. Special Coordinator for the Partnership for
                Global Infrastructure and Investment
              ○ Office of the U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate
              ○ Policy Planning Staff
              ○ Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs
              ○ Special Envoy for Iran
              ○ Special Representative for Syria Engagement
              ○ Special Representative for Venezuela
              ○ U.S. Security Coordinator for Israel and the Palestinian
                Authority
          ☆ Deputy Secretaries of State
              ○ Deputy Secretaries of State
              ○ Deputy Secretary of State
              ○ Bureau of Cyberspace and Digital Policy
              ○ Office of the U.S. Coordinator for the Arctic Region
              ○ Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources
              ○ Office of Foreign Assistance
              ○ Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization
          ☆ Arms Control and International Security
              ○ Arms Control and International Security
              ○ Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security
              ○ Bureau of Arms Control, Deterrence, and Stability
              ○ Bureau of International Security and Nonproliferation
              ○ Bureau of Political-Military Affairs
          ☆ Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights
              ○ Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights
              ○ Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human
                Rights
              ○ Bureau of Conflict and Stabilization Operations
              ○ Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor
              ○ Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs
              ○ Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration
              ○ Office of Global Criminal Justice
              ○ Office of International Religious Freedom
              ○ Office of the Special Envoy To Monitor and Combat Antisemitism
              ○ Office of the U.S. Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues
              ○ Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons
          ☆ Economic Growth, Energy, and Environment
              ○ Economic Growth, Energy, and Environment
              ○ Under Secretary for Economic Growth, Energy, and the
                Environment
              ○ Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs
              ○ Bureau of Energy Resources
              ○ Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific
                Affairs
              ○ Office of Global Food Security
              ○ Office of Global Partnerships
              ○ Office of the Chief Economist
              ○ Office of the Science and Technology Adviser
          ☆ Management
              ○ Management
              ○ Under Secretary for Management
              ○ Bureau of Administration
              ○ Bureau of Budget and Planning
              ○ Bureau of the Comptroller and Global Financial Services
              ○ Bureau of Consular Affairs
              ○ Bureau of Diplomatic Security
              ○ Bureau of Global Talent Management
              ○ Bureau of Information Resource Management
              ○ Bureau of Medical Services
              ○ Bureau of Overseas Buildings Operations
              ○ Director of Diplomatic Reception Rooms
              ○ Foreign Service Institute
              ○ Office of Foreign Missions
              ○ Office of Management Strategy and Solutions
          ☆ Political Affairs
              ○ Political Affairs
              ○ Under Secretary for Political Affairs
              ○ Bureau of African Affairs
              ○ Bureau of Counterterrorism
              ○ Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs
              ○ Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs
              ○ Bureau of International Organization Affairs
              ○ Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs
              ○ Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs
              ○ Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs
          ☆ Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs
              ○ Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs
              ○ Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs
              ○ Educational and Cultural Affairs
              ○ Expo Unit
              ○ Global Engagement Center
              ○ Global Public Affairs
              ○ Office of Global Youth Issues
              ○ Policy, Planning, and Resources
              ○ U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy
  • About
      □ Back
      □ About

        Mission

        About the U.S. Department of State
        Joint Strategic Plan
        Equity Action Plan
        Foreign Affairs Manual and Handbook
        Department of State by State Map
        DipNote Blog
        We Are the U.S. Department of State

        History

        Previous Administration Archives
        Foreign Relations of the United States
        National Museum of American Diplomacy
        Art in Embassies

        Administrative

        Department Reports and Publications
        Agency Financial Reports
        Form Finder
        Organization Chart
        Plans, Performance, Budget
        Information Quality Act
        Open Government Initiative
        Data Informed Diplomacy
        Digital Government Strategy
        Plain Writing Program
        Partner With State

        Leadership

        The Secretary of State
        Deputy Secretary of State
        Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources
        Biographies of Senior Officials

        Directories

        Contact Us
        Telephone Directory
        U.S. Ambassadors
        U.S. Embassies and Other Posts
        Country Offices Directory
        Key Officers of Foreign Service Posts
        Diplomats in Residence

Home中文 (中国) ...美利坚合众国总统公告 2021年男女同性恋、双性恋、跨性别者和酷
儿骄傲月
hide

美利坚合众国总统公告 2021年男女同性恋、双性恋、跨性别者和酷儿骄傲月

中文翻译

2021年6月6日

白宫
华盛顿特区
2021年6月1日

1969年6月在石墙酒吧（Stonewall Inn）发生的反抗激发了一场自由解放运动——那一行动
号召在继续激励我们兑现我们的国家承诺，实现对所有人的平等、自由与公正。骄傲月是
一个回首男女同性恋、双性恋、跨性别者和酷儿等(LGBTQ+)群体所历磨难的时刻，是一个
为那些以勇敢的斗争——和继续的斗争——来争取完全平等的先驱者的胜利而欢呼的时刻。骄
傲月既是集体对公开现身的欢庆，也是个体对自身价值与尊严的赞颂。值此骄傲月，我们
表彰全美各地LGBTQ+人士作出的宝贵贡献，并且重申承诺，在LGBTQ+美国人与偏见和不公
的持续斗争中，我们与他们站在一起。

自石墙事件以来，美国的LGBTQ+群体取得了长足进展。最高法院近年来的历史性裁决推翻
了落后的法律，确认婚姻权利平等，并且使LGBTQ+人士在所有州和属地的工作场所受到保
护。《马修·谢泼德和小詹姆斯·伯德防止仇恨犯罪法》（Matthew Shepard and James
Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act）扩大了对仇恨犯罪的定义，使之包含针对性别
取向或性别认同的犯罪行为。如今，在几乎各级政府中都有LGBTQ+人士——在市政厅、州议
会、州长官邸以及国会大厦和本政府各部门。在我任命的1500位官员中，有将近14%的人表
明是LGBTQ+身份，令我尤其荣幸的是担任运输部长的皮特·布蒂泽吉（Pete Buttigieg），
他是成为内阁成员的第一位公开的LGBTQ+人士；以及第一位得到参议院确认担任卫生部助
理部长的公开的跨性别人士雷切尔·莱文（Rachel Levine）。

尽管有所有这些进展，但是，许多州仍然缺少对LGBTQ+人士在医院、学校、公共住房以及
其他场所的基本权利和尊严的保护。我们国家继续看到对有色人种跨性别女性的暴力攻击
的不幸激增。LGBTQ+人士——尤其是违抗性或性别常规的青少年——在学校受到霸凌和骚扰，
面临超常的自残和自杀风险。有些州无视我们国家的共融和人人享有自由的价值观，采用
歧视性法律，着力打击跨性别的年轻人。

我们国家也继续存在可悲程度的对跨性别人的暴力，尤其是对有色人种跨性别女性。我们
仍然受着像奥兰多（Orlando）脉冲夜总会（Pulse Nightclub）这样的悲剧的折磨。要结
束对LGBTQ+群体的暴力和歧视，我们就必须继续作出专注和不懈的努力。我作为总统，致
力于捍卫所有LGBTQ+人士的权利。

本政府正在采取历史性行动，旨在使LGBTQ+家庭最终得到完全平等。我在上任的第一天签
署行政命令，责成联邦机构全面实施所有相关联邦法律，禁止基于性别认同或性取向的歧
视。因此，联邦政府已经采取措施，防止在就业、医护、住房、借贷以及教育等方面歧视
LGBTQ+人士。我还签署了一项行政命令，明确规定所有合格的美国人都能够在美国武装部
队服役——包括爱国的跨性别美国人，他们再次可以骄傲和公开地从军效国——以及一份《国
家安全备忘录》（National Security Memorandum），承诺支持在海外服务的LGBTQ+联邦
雇员。本政府也正努力在海外促进和保护LGBTQ+人权。LGBTQ+权利是人权，这就是本政府
之所以重申美国的承诺，支持世界各地站在平等和民主运动第一线的人，他们往往冒着巨
大风险。我们看见你们，我们支持你们，我们在你们的勇气的激励下，不实现完全平等决
不罢休。

虽然我对本政府推进保护LGBTQ+群体的进展感到骄傲，但是，不到最终实现LGBTQ+美国人
的完全平等并定为法律，我不会停步。正因为如此，我继续呼吁国会批准《平等法》（
Equality Act），以便确保全国各地LGBTQ+人士和家庭的公民权利受到保护。正因为如此
，我们必须看到正在出现的挑战，例如，许多一生受歧视和受压迫的LGBTQ+老年人，如今
形单影只，需要得到帮助和老年照顾。

在LGBTQ+骄傲月，我们赞赏许多人所展现的为过自由和真实的生活而斗争的坚韧和毅力。
他们通过这些努力，打开了人们的心胸，为使美国更加公正和平等奠定了基础。值此骄傲
月，我们申明，我们有义务维护所有人的尊严，并要为保护我们当中最易受伤害的人贡献
力量。

为此，我，美利坚合众国总统约瑟夫·拜登（JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.），谨以宪法和法律赋
予我的权力，特此宣布2021年6月为男女同性恋、双性恋、跨性别者和酷儿骄傲月。我吁请
美国人民表彰LGBTQ+群体的成就，弘扬美国人民的伟大多元性，并高挥他们的骄傲旗帜。

我谨于公元2021年，即美利坚合众国独立第245年之6月1日，亲笔在此签名为证。

约瑟夫·拜登

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

欲查看原稿内容: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/
2021/06/01/
a-proclamation-on-lesbian-gay-bisexual-transgender-and-queer-pride-month-2021/

本译文仅供参考，只有英文原稿才可以被视为权威资料来源。

Back to Top
 

  • White House
  • USA.gov
  • Office of the Inspector General
  • Archives
  • Contact Us

follow us
Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr GovDelivery

  • Privacy Policy
  • Accessibility Statement
  • Copyright Information
  • FOIA
  • No FEAR Act

Search: [                    ] 
Search
Close
 

U.S. Department of State

The Lessons of 1989: Freedom and Our Future

