
Understanding transgender people, gender identity and gender expression

   Transgender is an umbrella terms for persons whose gender identity,
   gender expression or behavior does not conform to that typically
--
   American Psychological Association. (2023, June 6). Answers to your
   questions about transgender people, gender identity, and gender
   expression.
   https://www.apa.org/topics/lgbtq/transgender-people-gender-identity-gen
   der-expression
--
   ____________________________________________________________
   two transgender individuals standing next to each other

--
   please refer to the Guidelines for Psychological Practice with
   Transgender and Gender Nonconforming People (PDF, 472KB) for more
   up-to-date language regarding transgender and gender nonconforming
   people.

   Transgender is an umbrella term for persons whose gender identity,
   gender expression or behavior does not conform to that typically
--
   hairstyles, voice or body characteristics. “Trans” is sometimes used as
   shorthand for “transgender.” While transgender is generally a good term
   to use, not everyone whose appearance or behavior is
   gender-nonconforming will identify as a transgender person. The ways
   that transgender people are talked about in popular culture, academia
   and science are constantly changing, particularly as individuals’
   awareness, knowledge and openness about transgender people and their
   experiences grow.
--

Have transgender people always existed?

   Transgender persons have been documented in many indigenous, Western,
   and Eastern cultures and societies from antiquity until the present
--

What are some categories or types of transgender people?

   Many identities fall under the transgender umbrella. The term
   transsexual refers to people whose gender identity is different from
--
   MTF). Some individuals who transition from one gender to another prefer
   to be referred to as a man or a woman, rather than as transgender.

--
   or “hir” instead of “his” or “her.” Some genderqueer people do not
   identify as transgender.

   Other categories of transgender people include androgynous,
   multigendered, gender nonconforming, third gender, and two-spirit
--

Why are some people transgender?

   There is no single explanation for why some people are transgender. The
   diversity of transgender expression and experiences argues against any
   simple or unitary explanation. Many experts believe that biological
--
   experiences, and experiences later in adolescence or adulthood may all
   contribute to the development of transgender identities.

How prevalent are transgender people?

   It is difficult to accurately estimate the number of transgender
   people, mostly because there are no population studies that accurately
--
   refers to one’s internal sense of being male, female, or something
   else. Transgender people may be straight, lesbian, gay, bisexual, or
   asexual, just as nontransgender people can be. Some recent research has
   shown that a change or a new exploration period in partner attraction
   may occur during the process of transition. However, transgender people
   usually remain as attached to loved ones after transition as they were
   before transition. Transgender people usually label their sexual
   orientation using their gender as a reference. For example, a
   transgender woman, or a person who is assigned male at birth and
   transitions to female, who is attracted to other women would be
   identified as a lesbian or gay woman. Likewise, a transgender man, or a
   person who is assigned female at birth and transitions to male, who is
--

How does someone know that they are transgender?

   Transgender people experience their transgender identity in a variety
   of ways and may become aware of their transgender identity at any age.
   Some can trace their transgender identities and feelings back to their
   earliest memories. They may have vague feelings of “not fitting in”
   with people of their assigned sex or specific wishes to be something
   other than their assigned sex. Others become aware of their transgender
   identities or begin to explore and experience gender-nonconforming
   attitudes and behaviors during adolescence or much later in life. Some
   embrace their transgender feelings, while others struggle with feelings
   of shame or confusion. Those who transition later in life may have
   struggled to fit in adequately as their assigned sex only to later face
   dissatisfaction with their lives. Some transgender people, transsexuals
   in particular, experience intense dissatisfaction with their sex
--

What should parents do if their child appears to be transgender or gender
nonconforming?
--

How do transgender individuals make a gender transition?

--
   changes a little at a time. While there is no “right” way to transition
   genders, there are some common social changes transgender people
   experience that may involve one or more of the following: adopting the
--

   Every transgender person’s process or transition differs. Because of
   this, many factors may determine how the individual wishes to live and
--
   professional who is experienced in providing affirmative care for
   transgender people is an important first step. A qualified professional
   can provide guidance and referrals to other helping professionals.
   Connecting with other transgender people through peer support groups
   and transgender community organizations is also helpful.

   The World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH), a
   professional organization devoted to the treatment of transgender
   people, publishes The Standards of Care for Gender Identity Disorders,
--

Is being transgender a mental disorder?

   A psychological state is considered a mental disorder only if it causes
   significant distress or disability. Many transgender people do not
   experience their gender as distressing or disabling, which implies that
   identifying as transgender does not constitute a mental disorder. For
   these individuals, the significant problem is finding affordable
--
   experiences with discrimination, or assault. These experiences may lead
   many transgender people to suffer with anxiety, depression or related
   disorders at higher rates than nontransgender persons.

--

What kinds of discrimination do transgender people face?

   Anti-discrimination laws in most U.S. cities and states do not protect
   transgender people from discrimination based on gender identity or
   gender expression. Consequently, transgender people in most cities and
   states face discrimination in nearly every aspect of their lives. The
   National Center for Transgender Equality and the National Gay and
   Lesbian Task Force released a report in 2011 entitled Injustice at
   Every Turn, which confirmed the pervasive and severe discrimination
   faced by transgender people. Out of a sample of nearly 6,500
   transgender people, the report found that transgender people experience
   high levels of discrimination in employment, housing, health care,
--

   Transgender people may also have additional identities that may affect
   the types of discrimination they experience. Groups with such
   additional identities include transgender people of racial, ethnic, or
   religious minority backgrounds; transgender people of lower
   socioeconomic statuses; transgender people with disabilities;
   transgender youth; transgender elderly; and others. Experiencing
   discrimination may cause significant amounts of psychological stress,
   often leaving transgender individuals to wonder whether they were
   discriminated against because of their gender identity or gender
--
   According to the study, while discrimination is pervasive for the
   majority of transgender people, the intersection of anti-transgender
   bias and persistent, structural racism is especially severe. People of
   color in general fare worse than White transgender people, with African
   American transgender individuals faring far worse than all other
   transgender populations examined.

   Many transgender people are the targets of hate crimes. They are also
   the victims of subtle discrimination—which includes everything from
--

How can I be supportive of transgender family members, friends, or
significant others?

     * Educate yourself about transgender issues by reading books,
       attending conferences, and consulting with transgender experts. Be
       aware of your attitudes concerning people with gender-nonconforming
       appearance or behavior.
     * Know that transgender people have membership in various
       sociocultural identity groups (e.g., race, social class, religion,
       age, disability, etc.) and there is not one universal way to look
       or be transgender.
     * Use names and pronouns that are appropriate to the person’s gender
       presentation and identity; if in doubt, ask.
     * Don’t make assumptions about transgender people’s sexual
       orientation, desire for hormonal or medical treatment, or other
--
       exam or you are a person who is interested in dating someone that
       you’ve learned is transgender), ask.
     * Don’t confuse gender nonconformity with being transgender. Not all
       people who appear androgynous or gender nonconforming identify as
       transgender or desire gender affirmation treatment.
     * Keep the lines of communication open with the transgender person in
       your life.
--
       Mental health professionals and support groups for family, friends,
       and significant others of transgender people can be useful
       resources.
     * Advocate for transgender rights, including social and economic
       justice and appropriate psychological care.Familiarize yourself
       with the local and state or provincial laws that protect
       transgender people from discrimination.

Where can I find more information about transgender health, advocacy and
human rights?
--
       Email
     * National Center for Transgender Equality
       1325 Massachusetts Ave., Suite 700
--
     * Parents, Families, and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG)
       Transgender Network (TNET)
       PFLAG National Office
--
       Email
     * Transgender Law Center
       870 Market Street Room 400
--
       (888) 462-8932
     * World Professional Association for Transgender Health
       Email
--
       DeCuypere, G., Feldman, J., ... Zucker, K. (2012). Standards of
       care for the health of transsexual, transgender, and gender
       nonconforming people (7th version). International Journal of
       Transgenderism, 13, 165-232. doi:10.1080/15532739.2011.700873
     * National Center for Transgender Equality and the National Gay and
       Lesbian Task Force. (2011). Injustice at every turn.
--
     * Sexual orientation and gender diversity
     * Transgender Identity Issues in Psychology
     * Guidelines for Psychological Practice with Transgender and Gender
       Nonconforming People (PDF, 472KB)
