   #Pew Research Center's Social & Demographic Trends Project » Feed Pew
   Research Center's Social & Demographic Trends Project » Comments Feed
   alternate alternate alternate JSON Representation Prism XML Version
   Plain Text Version

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MVFJNW

   Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World
   Newsletters Press Donate My Account Contacted By Us?

   Pew Research Center Logo

   Read our research on: Israel | Internet & Technology | Religion
   Pew Research Center Logo
   ____________________ (BUTTON)

   Research Topics
   All PublicationsMethodsShort ReadsTools & ResourcesExpertsAbout

Topics

   Politics & PolicyInternational AffairsImmigration & MigrationRace &
   EthnicityReligionAge & GenerationsGender & LGBTQ
   Family & RelationshipsEconomy & WorkScienceInternet & TechnologyNews
   Habits & MediaMethodological ResearchFull topic list

Regions & Countries

   Asia & the PacificEurope & RussiaLatin AmericaMiddle East & North
   AfricaNorth AmericaSub-Saharan AfricaMultiple Regions / Worldwide

Formats

   FeaturesFact SheetsVideosData Essays

   Research Topics

Topics

   Politics & PolicyInternational AffairsImmigration & MigrationRace &
   EthnicityReligionAge & GenerationsGender & LGBTQFamily &
   RelationshipsEconomy & WorkScienceInternet & TechnologyNews Habits &
   MediaMethodological ResearchFull topic list

Regions & Countries

   Asia & the PacificEurope & RussiaLatin AmericaMiddle East & North
   AfricaNorth AmericaSub-Saharan AfricaMultiple Regions / Worldwide

Formats

   FeaturesFact SheetsVideosData Essays
   All PublicationsMethodsShort ReadsTools &
   ResourcesExpertsAboutNewslettersPressMy AccountContacted By Us?
   DONATE
   ____________________ (BUTTON)

   Read our research on: Israel | Internet & Technology | Religion
   Home Research Topics Gender & LGBT LGBT Attitudes & Experiences Gender
   Identity

The Experiences, Challenges and Hopes of Transgender and Nonbinary U.S.
Adults

Findings from Pew Research Center focus groups

   By Anna Brown, Juliana Menasce Horowitz, Kim Parker and Rachel Minkin
   June 7, 2022
     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * LinkedIn

Table of Contents

   The Experiences, Challenges and Hopes of Transgender and Nonbinary U.S.
   Adults
   Identity and the gender journeyNavigating gender day-to-daySeeking
   medical care for gender transitions Connections with the broader LGBTQ+
   communityPolicy and social change
   Methodology Acknowledgments

Introduction

   Transgender and nonbinary people have gained visibility in the U.S. in
   recent years as celebrities from Laverne Cox to Caitlyn
   Jenner to Elliot Page have spoken openly about their gender
   transitions. On March 30, 2022, the White House issued a
   proclamation recognizing Transgender Day of Visibility, the first time
   a U.S. president has done so.

   More recently, singer and actor Janelle Monáe came out as nonbinary,
   while the U.S. State Department and Social Security Administration
   announced that Americans will be allowed to select "X" rather than
   "male" or "female" for their sex marker on their passport and Social
   Security applications.

   At the same time, several states have enacted or are considering
   legislation that would limit the rights of transgender and nonbinary
   people. These include bills requiring people to use public bathrooms
   that correspond with the sex they were assigned at birth, prohibiting
   trans athletes from competing on teams that match their gender
   identity, and restricting the availability of health care to trans
   youth seeking to medically transition.

   A new Pew Research Center survey finds that 1.6% of U.S. adults are
   transgender or nonbinary - that is, their gender is different from the
   sex they were assigned at birth. This includes people who describe
   themselves as a man, a woman or nonbinary, or who use terms such as
   gender fluid or agender to describe their gender. While relatively few
   U.S. adults are transgender, a growing share say they know someone who
   is (44% today vs. 37% in 2017). One-in-five say they know someone who
   doesn't identify as a man or woman.

   In order to better understand the experiences of transgender and
   nonbinary adults at a time when gender identity is at the center of
   many national debates, Pew Research Center conducted a series of focus
   groups with trans men, trans women and nonbinary adults on issues
   ranging from their gender journey, to how they navigate issues of
   gender in their day-to-day life, to what they see as the most pressing
   policy issues facing people who are trans or nonbinary. This is part of
   a larger study that includes a survey of the general public on their
   attitudes about gender identity and issues related to people who are
   transgender or nonbinary.
   Terminology
   (BUTTON)

   The terms transgender and trans are used interchangeably throughout
   this essay to refer to people whose gender is different from the sex
   they were assigned at birth. This includes, but is not limited to,
   transgender men (that is, men who were assigned female at birth) and
   transgender women (women who were assigned male at birth).

   Nonbinary adults are defined here as those who are neither a man nor a
   woman or who aren't strictly one or the other. While some nonbinary
   focus group participants sometimes use different terms to describe
   themselves, such as "gender queer," "gender fluid" or "genderless," all
   said the term "nonbinary" describes their gender in the screening
   questionnaire. Some, but not all, nonbinary participants also consider
   themselves to be transgender.

   References to gender transitions relate to the process through which
   trans and nonbinary people express their gender as different from
   social expectations associated with the sex they were assigned at
   birth. This may include social, legal and medical transitions. The
   social aspect of a gender transition may include going by a new name or
   using different pronouns, or expressing their gender through their
   dress, mannerisms, gender roles or other ways. The legal aspect may
   include legally changing their name or changing their sex or gender
   designation on legal documents or identification. Medical care may
   include treatments such as hormone therapy, laser hair removal and/or
   surgery.

   References to femme indicate feminine gender expression. This is often
   in contrast to "masc," meaning masculine gender expression.

   Cisgender is used to describe people whose gender matches the sex they
   were assigned at birth and who do not identify as transgender or
   nonbinary.

   Misgendering is defined as referring to or addressing a person in ways
   that do not align with their gender identity, including using incorrect
   pronouns, titles (such as "sir" or "ma'am"), and other terms (such as
   "son" or "daughter") that do not match their gender.

   References to dysphoria may include feelings of distress due to the
   mismatch of one's gender and sex assigned at birth, as well as
   a diagnosis of gender dysphoria, which is sometimes a prerequisite for
   access to health care and medical transitions.

   The acronym LGBTQ+ refers to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer
   (or, in some cases, questioning), and other sexual orientations or
   gender identities that are not straight or cisgender, such as intersex,
   asexual or pansexual.
   How we did this
   (BUTTON)

   Pew Research Center conducted this research to better understand the
   experiences and views of transgender and nonbinary U.S. adults. Because
   transgender and nonbinary people make up only about 1.6% of the adult
   U.S. population, this is a difficult population to reach with a
   probability-based, nationally representative survey. As an alternative,
   we conducted a series of focus groups with trans and nonbinary adults
   covering a variety of topics related to the trans and nonbinary
   experience. This allows us to go more in-depth on some of these topics
   than a survey would typically allow, and to share these experiences in
   the participants' own words.

   For this project, we conducted six online focus groups, with a total of
   27 participants (four to five participants in each group), from March
   8-10, 2022. Participants were recruited by targeted email outreach
   among a panel of adults who had previously said on a survey that they
   were transgender or nonbinary, as well as via connections through
   professional networks and LGBTQ+ organizations, followed by a screening
   call. Candidates were eligible if they met the technology requirements
   to participate in an online focus group and if they either said they
   consider themselves to be transgender or if they said their gender was
   nonbinary or another identity other than man or woman (regardless of
   whether or not they also said they were transgender). For more details,
   see the Methodology.

   Participants who qualified were placed in groups as follows: one group
   of nonbinary adults only (with a nonbinary moderator); one group of
   trans women only (with a trans woman moderator); one group of trans men
   only (with a trans man moderator); and three groups with a mix of trans
   and nonbinary adults (with either a nonbinary moderator or a trans man
   moderator). All of the moderators had extensive experience facilitating
   groups, including with transgender and nonbinary participants.

   The participants were a mix of ages, races/ethnicities, and were from
   all corners of the country. For a detailed breakdown of the
   participants' demographic characteristics, see the Methodology.

   The findings are not statistically representative and cannot be
   extrapolated to wider populations.

   Some quotes have been lightly edited for clarity or to remove
   identifying details. In this essay, participants are identified as
   trans men, trans women, or nonbinary adults based on their answers to
   the screening questionnaire. These words don't necessarily encompass
   all of the ways in which participants described their gender.
   Participants' ages are grouped into the following categories:  late
   teens; early/mid/late 20s, 30s and 40s; and 50s and 60s (those ages 50
   to 69 were grouped into bigger "buckets" to better preserve their
   anonymity).

   These focus groups were not designed to be representative of the entire
   population of trans and nonbinary U.S. adults, but the participants'
   stories provide a glimpse into some of the experiences of people who
   are transgender and/or nonbinary. The groups included a total of 27
   transgender and nonbinary adults from around the U.S. and ranging in
   age from late teens to mid-60s. Most currently live in an urban area,
   but about half said they grew up in a suburb. The groups included a mix
   of White, Black, Hispanic, Asian and multiracial American participants.
   See Methodology for more details.

Identity and the gender journey

   (Michael Siluk/UCG/Universal Images Group via Getty Images)

   Most focus group participants said they knew from an early age - many
   as young as preschool or elementary school - that there was something
   different about them, even if they didn't have the words to describe
   what it was. Some described feeling like they didn't fit in with other
   children of their sex but didn't know exactly why. Others said they
   felt like they were in the wrong body.

   "I remember preschool, [where] the boys were playing on one side and
   the girls were playing on the other, and I just had a moment where I
   realized what side I was supposed to be on and what side people thought
   I was supposed to be on. ... Yeah, I always knew that I was male, since
   my earliest memories."
   - Trans man, late 30s

   "As a small child, like around kindergarten [or] first grade ... I just
   was [fascinated] by how some people were small girls, and some people
   were small boys, and it was on my mind constantly. And I started to
   feel very uncomfortable, just existing as a young girl."
   - Trans man, early 30s

   "I was 9 and I was at day camp and I was changing with all the other
   9-year-old girls ... and I remember looking at everybody's body around
   me and at my own body, and even though I was visually seeing the exact
   shapeless nine-year-old form, I literally thought to myself, `oh, maybe
   I was supposed to be a boy,' even though I know I wasn't seeing
   anything different. ... And I remember being so unbothered by the
   thought, like not a panic, not like, `oh man, I'm so different, like
   everybody here I'm so different and this is terrible,' I was like, `oh,
   maybe I was supposed to be a boy,' and for some reason that exact quote
   really stuck in my memory."
   - Nonbinary person, late 30s

   "Since I was little, I felt as though I was a man who, when they were
   passing out bodies, someone made a goof and I got a female body instead
   of the male body that I should have had. But I was forced by society,
   especially at that time growing up, to just make my peace with having a
   female body."
   - Nonbinary person, 50s

   "I've known ever since I was little. I'm not really sure the age, but I
   just always knew when I put on boy clothes, I just felt so
   uncomfortable."
   - Trans woman, late 30s

   "It was probably as early as I can remember that I wasn't like my
   brother or my father [and] not exactly like my girl cousins but I was
   something else, but I didn't know what it was."
   - Nonbinary person, 60s

   Many participants were well into adulthood before they found the words
   to describe their gender. For those focus group participants, the path
   to self-discovery varied. Some described meeting someone who was
   transgender and relating to their experience; others described learning
   about people who are trans or nonbinary in college classes or by doing
   their own research.

   "I read a Time magazine article ... called `Homosexuality in America'
   ... in 1969. ... Of course, we didn't have language like we do now or
   people were not willing to use it ... [but] it was kind of the first
   word that I had ever heard that resonated with me at all. So, I went to
   school and I took the magazine, we were doing show-and-tell, and I
   stood up in front of the class and said, `I am a homosexual.' So that
   began my journey to figure this stuff out."
   - Nonbinary person, 60s

   "It wasn't until maybe I was 20 or so when my friend started his
   transition where I was like, `Wow, that sounds very similar to the
   emotions and challenges I am going through with my own identity.' ...
   My whole life from a very young age I was confused, but I didn't really
   put a name on it until I was about 20."
   - Nonbinary person, late 20s

   "I knew about drag queens, but I didn't know what trans was until I got
   to college and was exposed to new things, and that was when I had a
   word for myself for the first time."
   - Trans man, early 40s

   "I thought that by figuring out that I was interested in women,
   identifying as lesbian, I thought [my anxiety and sadness] would
   dissipate in time, and that was me cracking the code. But then, when I
   got older, I left home for the first time. I started to meet other
   trans people in the world. That's when I started to become equipped
   with the vocabulary. The understanding that this is a concept, and this
   makes sense. And that's when I started to understand that I wasn't
   cisgender."
   - Trans man, early 30s

   "When I took a human sexuality class in undergrad and I started
   learning about gender and different sexualities and things like that, I
   was like, `oh my god. I feel seen.' So, that's where I learned about it
   for the first time and started understanding how I identify."
   - Nonbinary person, mid-20s

   Focus group participants used a wide range of words to describe how
   they see their gender. For many nonbinary participants, the term
   "nonbinary" is more of an umbrella term, but when it comes to how they
   describe themselves, they tend to use words like "gender queer" or
   "gender fluid." The word "queer" came up many times across different
   groups, often to describe anyone who is not straight or cisgender. Some
   trans men and women preferred just the terms "man" or "woman," while
   some identified strongly with the term "transgender." The graphic below
   shows just some of the words the participants used to describe their
   gender.

   The way nonbinary people conceptualize their gender varies. Some said
   they feel like they're both a man and a woman - and how much they feel
   like they are one or the other may change depending on the day or the
   circumstance. Others said they don't feel like they are either a man or
   a woman, or that they don't have a gender at all. Some, but not all,
   also identified with the term transgender.

   "I had days where I would go out and just play with the boys and be one
   of the boys, and then there would be times that I would play with the
   girls and be one of the girls. And then I just never really knew what I
   was. I just knew that I would go back and forth."
   - Nonbinary person, mid-20s

   "Growing up with more of a masculine side or a feminine side, I just
   never was a fan of the labelling in terms of, `oh, this is a bit too
   masculine, you don't wear jewelry, you don't wear makeup, oh you're not
   feminine enough.' ... I used to alternate just based on who I felt I
   was. So, on a certain day if I felt like wearing a dress, or a skirt
   versus on a different day, I felt like wearing what was considered
   men's pants. ... So, for me it's always been both."
   - Nonbinary person, mid-30s

   "I feel like my gender is so amorphous and hard to hold and describe
   even. It's been important to find words for it, to find the outlines of
   it, to see the shape of it, but it's not something that I think about
   as who I am, because I'm more than just that."
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   "What words would I use to describe me? Genderless, if gender wasn't a
   thing. ... I guess if pronouns didn't exist and you just called me [by
   my name]. That's what my gender is. ... And I do use nonbinary also,
   just because it feels easier, I guess."
   - Nonbinary person, late 20s

   Some participants said their gender is one of the most important parts
   of their identity, while others described it as one of many important
   parts or a small piece of how they see themselves. For some, the focus
   on gender can get tiring. Those who said gender isn't a central - or at
   least not the most central - part of their identity mentioned race,
   ethnicity, religion and socioeconomic class as important aspects that
   shape their identity and experiences.

   "It is tough because [gender] does affect every factor of your life. If
   you are doing medical transitioning then you have appointments, you
   have to pay for the appointments, you have to be working in a job that
   supports you to pay for those appointments. So, it is definitely
   integral, and it has a lot of branches. And it deals with how you act,
   how you relate to friends, you know, I am sure some of us can relate to
   having to come out multiple times in our lives. That is why sexuality
   and gender are very integral and I would definitely say I am proud of
   it. And I think being able to say that I am proud of it, and my gender,
   I guess is a very important part of my identity."
   - Nonbinary person, late 20s

   "Sometimes I get tired of thinking about my gender because I am
   actively [undergoing my medical transition]. So, it is a lot of things
   on my mind right now, constantly, and it sometimes gets very tiring. I
   just want to not have to think about it some days. So, I would say
   it's, it's probably in my top three [most important parts of my
   identity] - parent, Black, queer nonbinary."
   - Nonbinary person, mid-40s

   "I live in a town with a large queer and trans population and I don't
   have to think about my gender most of the time other than having to
   come out as trans. But I'm poor and that colors everything. It's not a
   chosen part of my identity but that part of my identity is a lot more
   influential than my gender."
   - Trans man, early 40s

   "My gender is very important to my identity because I feel that they go
   hand in hand. Now my identity is also broken down into other factors
   [like] character, personality and other stuff that make up the recipe
   for my identity. But my gender plays a big part of it. ... It is
   important because it's how I live my life every day. When I wake up in
   the morning, I do things as a woman."
   - Trans woman, mid-40s

   "I feel more strongly connected to my other identities outside of my
   gender, and I feel like parts of it's just a more universal thing, like
   there's a lot more people in my socioeconomic class and we have much
   more shared experiences."
   - Trans man, late 30s

   Some participants spoke about how their gender interacted with other
   aspects of their identity, such as their race, culture and
   religion. For some, being transgender or nonbinary can be at odds with
   other parts of their identity or background.

   "Culturally I'm Dominican and Puerto Rican, a little bit of the macho
   machismo culture, in my family, and even now, if I'm going to be a man,
   I've got to be a certain type of man. So, I cannot just be who I'm
   meant to be or who I want myself to be, the human being that I am." -
   Trans man, mid-30s

   "[Judaism] is a very binary religion. There is a lot of things like for
   men to do and a lot of things for women to do. ... So, it is hard for
   me now as a gender queer person, right, to connect on some levels with
   [my] religion ... I have just now been exposed to a bunch of trans
   Jewish spaces online which is amazing."
   - Nonbinary person, mid-40s

   "Just being Indian American, I identify and love aspects of my culture
   and ethnicity, and I find them amazing and I identify with that, but
   it's kind of separated. So, I identify with the culture, then I
   identify here in terms of gender and being who I am, but I kind of feel
   the necessity to separate the two, unfortunately."
   - Nonbinary person, mid-30s

   "I think it's really me being a Black woman or a Black man that can
   sometimes be difficult. And also, my ethnic background too. It's really
   rough for me with my family back home and things of that nature."
   - Nonbinary person, mid-20s

Navigating gender day-to-day

   (Getty Images)

   For some, deciding how open to be about their gender identity can be a
   constant calculation. Some participants reported that they choose
   whether or not to disclose that they are trans or nonbinary in a given
   situation based on how safe or comfortable they feel and whether it's
   necessary for other people to know. This also varies depending on
   whether the participant can easily pass as a cisgender man or woman
   (that is, they can blend in so that others assume them to be cisgender
   and don't recognize that they are trans or nonbinary).

   "It just depends on whether I feel like I have the energy to bring it
   up, or if it feels worth it to me like with doctors and stuff like
   that. I always bring it up with my therapists, my primary [care
   doctor], I feel like she would get it. I guess it does vary on the
   situation and my capacity level."
   - Nonbinary person, late 20s

   "I decide based on the person and based on the context, like if I feel
   comfortable enough to share that piece of myself with them, because I
   do have the privilege of being able to move through the world and be
   identified as cis[gender] if I want to. But then it is important to me
   - if you're important to me, then you will know who I am and how I
   identify. Otherwise, if I don't feel comfortable or safe then I might
   not."
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   "The expression of my gender doesn't vary. Who I let in to know that I
   was formerly female - or formerly perceived as female - is kind of on a
   need to know basis."
   - Trans man, 60s

   "It's important to me that people not see me as cis[gender], so I have
   to come out a lot when I'm around new people, and sometimes that's
   challenging. ... It's not information that comes out in a normal
   conversation. You have to force it and that's difficult sometimes."
   - Trans man, early 40s

   Work is one realm where many participants said they choose not to share
   that they are trans or nonbinary. In some cases, this is because they
   want to be recognized for their work rather than the fact that they are
   trans or nonbinary; in others, especially for nonbinary participants,
   they fear it will be perceived as unprofessional.

   "It's gotten a lot better recently, but I feel like when you're
   nonbinary and you use they/them pronouns, it's just seen as really
   unprofessional and has been for a lot of my life."
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   "Whether it's LinkedIn or profiles [that] have been updated, I've
   noticed people's resumes have their pronouns now. I don't go that far
   because I just feel like it's a professional environment, it's nobody's
   business."
   - Nonbinary person, mid-30s

   "I don't necessarily volunteer the information just to make it public;
   I want to be recognized for my character, my skill set, in my work in
   other ways."
   - Trans man, early 30s

   Some focus group participants said they don't mind answering questions
   about what it's like to be trans or nonbinary but were wary of being
   seen as the token trans or nonbinary person in their workplace or among
   acquaintances. Whether or not they are comfortable answering these
   types of questions sometimes depends on who's asking, why they want to
   know, and how personal the questions get.

   "I've talked to [my cousin about being trans] a lot because she has a
   daughter, and her daughter wants to transition. So, she always will
   come to me asking questions."
   - Trans woman, early 40s

   "It is tough being considered the only resource for these topics,
   right? In my job, I would hate to call myself the token nonbinary, but
   I was the first nonbinary person that they hired and they were like,
   `Oh, my gosh, let me ask you all the questions as you are obviously the
   authority on the subject.' And it is like, `No, that is a part of me,
   but there are so many other great resources.'"
   - Nonbinary person, late 20s

   "I don't want to be the token. I'm not going to be no spokesperson. If
   you have questions, I'm the first person you can ask. Absolutely. I
   don't mind discussing. Ask me some of the hardest questions, because if
   you ask somebody else you might get you know your clock cleaned. So,
   ask me now ... so you can be educated properly. Otherwise, I don't
   believe it's anybody's business."
   - Trans woman, early 40s

   Most nonbinary participants said they use "they/them" as their
   pronouns, but some prefer alternatives. These alternatives include a
   combination of gendered and gender-neutral pronouns (like she/they) or
   simply preferring that others use one's names rather than pronouns.

   "If I could, I would just say my name is my pronoun, which I do in some
   spaces, but it just is not like a larger view. It feels like I'd rather
   have less labor on me in that regard, so I just say they/them."
   - Nonbinary person, late 20s

   "For me personally, I don't get mad if someone calls me `he' because I
   see what they're looking at. They look and they see a guy. So, I don't
   get upset. I know a few people who do ... and they correct you. Me, I'm
   a little more fluid. So, that's how it works for me."
   - Nonbinary person, mid-30s

   "I use they/she pronouns and I put `they' first because that is what I
   think is most comfortable and it's what I want to draw people's
   attention to, because I'm 5 feet tall and 100 pounds so it's not like I
   scream masculine at first sight, so I like putting `they' first because
   otherwise people always default to `she.' But I have `she' in there,
   and I don't know if I'd have `she' in there if I had not had kids."
   - Nonbinary person, late 30s

   "Why is it so hard for people to think of me as nonbinary? I choose not
   to use only they/them pronouns because I do sometimes identify with
   `she.' But I'm like, `Do I need to use they/them pronouns to be
   respected as nonbinary?' Sometimes I feel like I should do that. But I
   don't want to feel like I should do anything. I just want to be myself
   and have that be accepted and respected."
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   "I have a lot of patience for people, but [once someone in public used]
   they/them pronouns and I thanked them and they were like, `Yeah, I just
   figure I'd do it when I don't know [someone's] pronouns.' And I'm like,
   `I love it, thank you.'"
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   Transgender and nonbinary participants find affirmation of their gender
   identity and support in various places. Many cited their friends,
   chosen families (and, less commonly, their relatives), therapists or
   other health care providers, religion, or LGBTQ+ spaces as sources of
   support.

   "I'm just not close with my family [of origin], but I have a huge
   chosen family that I love and that fully respects my identity."
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   "Before the pandemic I used to go out to bars a lot; there's a queer
   bar in my town and it was a really nice place just being friends with
   everybody who went and everybody who worked there, it felt really nice
   you know, and just hearing everybody use the right pronouns for me it
   just felt really good."
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   "I don't necessarily go to a lot of dedicated support groups, but I
   found that there's kind of a good amount of support in areas or groups
   or fandoms for things that have a large LGBT population within them.
   Like certain shows or video games, where it's just kind of a joke that
   all the gay people flock to this."
   - Trans woman, late teens

   "Being able to practice my religion in a location with a congregation
   that is just completely chill about it, or so far has been completely
   chill about it, has been really amazing."
   - Nonbinary person, late 30s

   Many participants shared specific moments they said were small in the
   grand scheme of things but made them feel accepted and
   affirmed. Examples included going on dates, gestures of acceptance by a
   friend or social group, or simply participating in everyday activities.

   "I went on a date with a really good-looking, handsome guy. And he
   didn't know that I was trans. But I told him, and we kept talking and
   hanging out. ... That's not the first time that I felt affirmed or felt
   like somebody is treating me as I present myself. But ... he made me
   feel wanted and beautiful."
   - Trans woman, late 30s

   "I play [on a men's rec league] hockey [team]. ... I joined the league
   like right when I first transitioned and I showed up and I was ...
   nervous with locker rooms and stuff, and they just accepted me as male
   right away."
   - Trans man, late 30s

   "I ended up going into a barbershop. ... The barber was very welcoming,
   and talked to me as if I was just a casual customer and there was
   something that clicked within that moment where, figuring out my gender
   identity, I just wanted to exist in the world to do these natural
   things like other boys and men would do. So, there was just something
   exciting about that. It wasn't a super macho masculine moment, ... he
   just made me feel like I blended in."
   - Trans man, early 30s

   Participants also talked about negative experiences, such as being
   misgendered, either intentionally or unintentionally. For example, some
   shared instances where they were treated or addressed as a gender other
   than the gender that they identify as, such as people referring to them
   as "he" when they go by "she," or where they were deadnamed, meaning
   they were called by the name they had before they transitioned.

   "I get misgendered on the phone a lot and that's really annoying. And
   then, even after I correct them, they keep doing it, sometimes on
   purpose and sometimes I think they're just reading a script or
   something."
   - Trans man, late 30s

   "The times that I have been out, presenting femme, there is this very
   subconscious misgendering that people do and it can be very
   frustrating. [Once, at a restaurant,] I was dressed in makeup and nails
   and shoes and everything and still everyone was like, `Sir, what would
   you like?' ... Those little things - those microaggressions - they can
   really eat away at people."
   - Nonbinary person, mid-40s

   "People not calling me by the right name. My family is a big problem,
   they just won't call me by my name, you know? Except for my nephew, who
   is of the Millennial generation, so at least he gets it."
   - Nonbinary person, 60s

   "I'm constantly misgendered when I go out places. I accept this -
   because of the way I look, people are going to perceive me as a woman
   and it doesn't cause me huge dysphoria or anything, it's just nice that
   the company that I keep does use the right pronouns."
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   Some participants also shared stories of discrimination, bias,
   humiliation, and even violence. These experiences ranged from
   employment discrimination to being outed (that is, someone else
   disclosing the fact that they are transgender or nonbinary without
   their permission) without their permission to physical attacks.

   "I was on a date with this girl and I had to use the bathroom ... and
   the janitor ... wouldn't let me use the men's room, and he kept
   refusing to let me use the men's room, so essentially, I ended up
   having to use the same bathroom as my date."
   - Trans man, late 30s

   "I've been denied employment due to my gender identity. I walked into a
   supermarket looking for jobs. ... And they flat out didn't let me
   apply. They didn't even let me apply."
   - Trans man, mid-30s

   "[In high school,] this group of guys said, `[name] is gay.' I ignored
   them but they literally threw me and tore my shirt from my back and
   pushed me to the ground and tried to strip me naked. And I had to fight
   for myself and use my bag to hit him in the face."
   - Trans woman, late 20s

   "I took a college course [after] I had my name changed legally and the
   instructor called me out in front of the class and called me a liar and
   outed me."
   - Trans man, late 30s

Seeking medical care for gender transitions

   (Getty Images)

   Many, but not all, participants said they have received medical care,
   such as surgery or hormone therapy, as part of their gender
   transition. For those who haven't undergone a medical transition, the
   reasons ranged from financial barriers to being nervous about medical
   procedures in general to simply not feeling that it was the right thing
   for them.

   "For me to really to live my truth and live my identity, I had to have
   the surgery, which is why I went through it. It doesn't mean [that
   others] have to, or that it will make you more or less of a woman
   because you have it. But for me to be comfortable, ... that was a big
   part of it. And so, that's why I felt I had to get it."
   - Trans woman, early 40s

   "I'm older and it's an operation. ... I'm just kind of scared, I guess.
   I've never had an operation. I mean, like any kind of operation. I've
   never been to the hospital or anything like that. So, it [is] just kind
   of scary. But I mean, I want to. I think about all the time. I guess
   have got to get the courage up to do it."
   - Trans woman, early 40s

   "I've decided that the dysphoria of a second puberty ... would just be
   too much for me and I'm gender fluid enough where I'm happy, I guess."
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   "I'm too old to change anything, I mean I am what I am. [laughs]"
   - Nonbinary person, 60s

   Many focus group participants who have sought medical treatment for
   their gender transition faced barriers, although some had positive
   experiences. For those who said there were barriers, the cost and the
   struggle to find sympathetic doctors were often cited as challenges.

   "I was flat out turned down by the primary care physician who had to
   give the go-ahead to give me a referral to an endocrinologist; I was
   just shut down. That was it, end of story." - Nonbinary person, 50s

   "I have not had surgery, because I can't access surgery. So unless I
   get breast cancer and have a double mastectomy, surgery is just not
   going to happen ... because my health insurance wouldn't cover
   something like that. ... It would be an out-of-pocket plastic surgery
   expense and I can't afford that at this time."
   - Nonbinary person, 50s

   "Why do I need the permission of a therapist to say, `This person's
   identity is valid,' before I can get the health care that I need to be
   me, that is vital for myself and for my way of life?"
   - Nonbinary person, mid-40s

   "[My doctor] is basically the first person that actually embraced me
   and made me accept [who I am]."
   - Trans woman, late 20s

   Many people who transitioned in previous decades described how access
   has gotten much easier in recent years. Some described relying on
   underground networks to learn which doctors would help them obtain
   medical care or where to obtain hormones illegally.

   "It was hard financially because I started so long ago, just didn't
   have access like that. Sometimes you have to try to go to Mexico or
   learn about someone in Mexico that was a pharmacist, I can remember
   that. That was a big thing, going through the border to Mexico, that
   was wild. So, it was just hard financially because they would charge so
   much for testosterone. And there was the whole bodybuilding community.
   If you were transitioning, you went to bodybuilders, and they would
   charge you five times what they got it [for], so it was kind of tough."
   - Trans man, early 40s

   "It was a lot harder to get a surgeon when I started transitioning;
   insurance was out of the question, there wasn't really a national
   discussion around trans people and their particular medical needs. So,
   it was challenging having to pay everything out of pocket at a young
   age."
   - Trans man, early 30s

   "I guess it was hard for me to access hormones initially just because
   you had to jump through so many hoops, get letters, and then you had to
   find a provider that was willing to write it. And now it's like people
   are getting it from their primary care doctor, which is great, but a
   very different experience than I had."
   - Trans man, early 40s

Connections with the broader LGBTQ+ community

   (Angela Weiss/AFP via Getty Images)

   The discussions also touched on whether the participants feel a
   connection with a broader lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and
   queer (LGBTQ+) community or with other people who are LGBTQ+. Views
   varied, with some saying they feel an immediate connection with other
   people who are LGBTQ+, even with those who aren't trans or nonbinary,
   and others saying they don't necessarily feel this way.

   "It's kind of a recurring joke where you can meet another LGBT person
   and it is like there is an immediate understanding, and you are
   basically talking and giving each other emotional support, like you
   have been friends for 10-plus years."
   - Trans woman, late teens

   "I don't think it's automatic friendship between queer people, there's
   like a kinship, but I don't think there's automatic friendship or
   anything. I think it's just normal, like, how normal people make
   friends, just based on common interests."
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   "I do think of myself as part of the LGBT [community] ... I use the
   resources that are put in place for these communities, whether that's
   different health care programs, support groups, they have the community
   centers. ... So, I do consider myself to be part of this community, and
   I'm able to hopefully take when needed, as well as give back."
   - Trans man, mid-30s

   "I feel like that's such an important part of being a part of the
   [LGBTQ+] alphabet soup community, that process of constantly learning
   and listening to each other and ... growing and developing language
   together ... I love that aspect of creating who we are together,
   learning and unlearning together, and I feel like that's a part of at
   least the queer community spaces that I want to be in. That's something
   that's core to me."
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   "I identify as queer. I feel like I'm a part of the LGBT community.
   That's more of a part of my identity than being trans. ... Before I
   came out as trans, I identified as a lesbian. That was also a big part
   of my identity. So, that may be too why I feel like I'm more part of
   the LGB community."
   - Trans man, early 40s

   While many trans and nonbinary participants said they felt accepted by
   others in the LGBTQ+ community, some participants described their
   gender identity as a barrier to full acceptance. There was a sense
   among some participants that cisgender people who are lesbian, gay or
   bisexual don't always accept people who are transgender or nonbinary.

   "I would really like to be included in the [LGBTQ+] community. But I
   have seen some people try to separate the T from LGB ... I've run into
   a few situations throughout my time navigating the [LGBTQ+] community
   where I've been perceived - and I just want to say that there's nothing
   wrong with this - I've been perceived as like a more feminine or gay
   man in a social setting, even though I'm heterosexual. ... But the
   minute that that person found out that I wasn't a gay man ... and that
   I was actually a transgender person, they became cold and just
   distancing themselves. And I've been in a lot of those types of
   circumstances where there's that divide between the rest of the
   community."
   - Trans man, early 30s

   "There are some lesbians who see trans men as being traitors to
   womanhood. Those are not people that I really identify with or want to
   be close to."
   - Trans man, early 40s

   "It's only in the past maybe dozen or so years, that an identity like
   gender fluid or gender queer was acceptable even within the LGBTQ+
   community. ... I tried to go to certain LGBTQ+ events as a trans man
   and, you know, I was not allowed in because I looked too female. The
   gay men would not allow me to participate."
   - Nonbinary person, 50s

   "Technically based on the letters [in the acronym LGBTQ+] I am part of
   that community, but I've felt discrimination, it's very heavily
   exclusive to people who are either gay or lesbian and I think that's
   true ... for queer or bisexual or asexual, intersex ... anybody who's
   not like exclusively hardcore gay or lesbian. It's very exclusive, like
   excluding to those people. ... I feel like the BTQ is a separate group
   of people.... So, I identify with the second half of the letters as a
   separate subset."
   - Trans man, late 30s

Policy and social change

   (Steve Ahlquist/Uprise RI)

   When asked to name the most important policy or political issues facing
   transgender and nonbinary people in the United States today, many
   participants named basic needs such as housing, employment, and health
   care. Others cited recent legislation or policies related to people who
   are transgender that have made national news.

   "Housing is a huge issue. Health care might be good in New York, it
   might be good in California, but ... it's not a national equality for
   trans folks. Health care is not equal across the states. Housing is not
   equal across the states. So, I think that the issues right now that
   we're all facing is health care and housing. That's the top, the most
   important things."
   - Trans woman, early 40s

   "Definitely education. I think that's very important ... Whether you
   identify as trans or not as a young child, it's good to understand and
   know the different things under the umbrella, the queer umbrella. And
   it is also just a respect thing. And also, the violence that happens
   against trans and nonbinary people. I feel like educating them very
   young, that kind of helps - well, it is going to help because once you
   understand what's going on and you see somebody that doesn't identify
   the same as you, you'll have that respect, or you'll have that
   understanding and you're less likely to be very violent towards them."
   - Nonbinary person, mid-20s

   "Employment is a big one. And I know that some areas, more metropolitan
   progressive-leaning areas, are really on top of this, but they're trans
   people everywhere that are still being discriminated against. I think
   it's a personal thing for me that goes back to my military service, but
   still, it's just unfortunate. It's an unfortunate reality."
   - Trans man, early 30s

   "I think just the strong intersectionality of trans people with mental
   health issues, or even physical health issues. ... So in that way,
   accessing good health care or having good mental health."
   - Trans man, late 30s

   "I honestly think that the situation in Texas is the most pressing
   political and policy situation because it is a direct attack on the
   trans community. ... And it is so insidious because it doesn't just
   target bathrooms. This is saying that if you provide medical care to
   trans youth it is tantamount to child abuse. And it is so enraging
   because it is a known proven fact that access to gender affirming
   medical care saves lives. It saves the lives of trans youth. And trans
   youth have the highest suicide rate in the country."
   - Nonbinary person, mid-40s

   Participants had different takes on what gets in the way of progress on
   issues facing transgender and nonbinary people. Some pointed to the
   lack of knowledge surrounding the history of these issues or not
   knowing someone who is transgender or nonbinary. Others mentioned
   misconceptions people might have about transgender and nonbinary people
   that influence their political and policy perspectives.

   "People who don't know trans people, honestly ... that's the only
   barrier I can understand because people fear what they don't know and
   then react to it a lot of the time."
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   "Sometimes even if they know someone, they still don't consider them to
   be a human being, they are an `other,' they are an `it,' they are a
   `not like me,' `not like my family,' person and so they are put into a
   place socially where they can be treated badly."
   - Nonbinary person, 50s

   "Just the ignorance and misinformation and this quick fake social media
   fodder, where it encourages people who should not be part of the
   conversation to spread things that are not true."
   - Trans man, late 30s

   "Also, the political issues that face nonbinary people, it's that
   people think nonbinary is some made-up thing to feel cool. It's not to
   feel cool. And if someone does do it to feel cool, maybe they're just
   doing that because they don't feel comfortable within themselves."
   - Nonbinary person, mid-30s

   "There's so much fear around it, and misunderstanding, and people
   thinking that if you're talking to kids about gender and sexuality,
   that it's sexual. And it's like, we really need to break down that our
   bodies are not inherently sexual. We need to be able to talk with
   students and children about their bodies so that they can then feel
   empowered to understand themselves, advocate for themselves."
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   When asked what makes them hopeful for the future for trans and
   nonbinary people, some participants pointed to the way things in
   society have already changed and progress that has been made. For
   example, some mentioned greater representation and visibility of
   transgender and nonbinary people in entertainment and other industries,
   while others focused on changing societal views as things that give
   them hope for the future.

   "I am hopeful about the future because I see so many of us coming out
   and being visible and representing and showing folks that we are not to
   stereotype."
   - Trans woman, early 40s

   "Also, even though celebrity is annoying, it's still cool when people
   like Willow [Smith] or Billie Eilish or all these popstars that the
   kids really love are like, `I'm nonbinary, I'm queer,' like a lot more
   progressive. ... Even just more visibility in TV shows and movies, the
   more and more that happens the more it's like, `Oh yeah, we are really
   here, you can't not see us.'"
   - Nonbinary person, late 20s

   "We shouldn't have to look to the entertainment industry for role
   models, we shouldn't have to, we should be able to look to our leaders,
   our political leaders, but I think, that's what gives me hope. Soon,
   it's going to become a nonissue, maybe in my lifetime."
   - Trans man, 60s

   "I have gotten a little bit into stand-up comedy in the last few weeks,
   and it is like the jokes that people made ten years ago are resurfacing
   online and people are enraged about it. They are saying like, `Oh, this
   is totally inappropriate.' But that comes with the recognition that
   things have changed, and language has changed, and people are becoming
   more intolerant of allowing these things to occur. So that is why I am
   hopeful, is being able to see that progression and hopeful continued
   improvement on that front."
   - Nonbinary person, late 20s

   "I think because of the shift of what's happening, how everything has
   become so normal, and people are being more open, and within the
   umbrella of queerness so many different things are happening, I think
   as we get more comfortable and we progress as a society, it's just
   going to be better. So, people don't have to hide who they are. So,
   that gives me hope."
   - Nonbinary person, mid-20s

   For many, young people are a source of hope. Several participants
   talked about younger generations being more accepting of those who are
   transgender or nonbinary and also being more accepted by their families
   if they themselves are trans or nonbinary.

   "And then the other portion that gives me hope are the kids, because I
   work now with so many kids who are coming out as trans earlier and
   their families are embracing them and everything. ... So I really am
   trusting in the young generation."
   - Nonbinary person, 60s

   "I mean kids don't judge you the same way as adults do about gender,
   and they're so expansive and have so much creativity. ... So it's just
   the kids, Gen Z, and it just makes me feel really, really hopeful."
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   "The youth, the youth. They understand almost intrinsically so much
   more about these things than I feel like my generation did. They give
   me so much hope for the future."
   - Nonbinary person, early 30s

   "I think future generations, just seeing this growing amount of support
   that they have, that it's just going to keep improving ... there's an
   increase in visibility but there's also an increase in support ... like
   resources for parents where they can see that they don't have to punish
   their kids. Their kids can grow up feeling like, `This is okay to be
   this way.' And I feel like that's not something that can be stopped."
   - Trans man, late 30s

Additional materials

     * Acknowledgments
     * Methodology
     * Topline

   Lead photo: (Angela Weiss/AFP via Getty Images)
   Next: Methodology
   <- Prev Page
   You are reading page1Page2Page3
   Next Page ->
   [weekly.svg]

Social Trends Monthly Newsletter

   Sign up to to receive a monthly digest of the Center's latest research
   on the attitudes and behaviors of Americans in key realms of daily life
   ____________________
   Sign Up

   Pew Research Center
   1615 L St. NW, Suite 800
   Washington, DC 20036
   USA
   (+1) 202-419-4300 | Main
   (+1) 202-857-8562 | Fax
   (+1) 202-419-4372 | Media Inquiries
   Research Topics
   Politics & PolicyInternational AffairsImmigration & MigrationRace &
   EthnicityReligionAge & GenerationsGender & LGBTQ
   Family & RelationshipsEconomy & WorkScienceInternet & TechnologyNews
   Habits & MediaMethodological ResearchFull topic list
   Follow Us
   Email Newsletters Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube RSS

   About Pew Research Center Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan fact
   tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends
   shaping the world. It conducts public opinion polling, demographic
   research, media content analysis and other empirical social science
   research. Pew Research Center does not take policy positions. It is a
   subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts.
   Copyright 2023 Pew Research Center About Terms & Conditions Privacy
   Policy Cookie Settings Reprints, Permissions & Use Policy Feedback
   Careers

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=MVFJNW
