   #RSS Feed alternate

   About

   About UsTeamContact
   Policy

   ResearchBriefsOp-edsJournal
   Innovation

   Civic InnovationsEssay ContestAmbassador ProgramPitch to Us!Consulting
   TeamIdeological Assessment (Coming Soon)
   Discourse

   Effective DiscourseFellowship Program
   Education
   Join
   Give
   Logo and mark for the Institute for Youth in Policy. Rounded globe
   representing YIP Institute.
   About

   About Us
   See more about the Institute, its history, and mission.
   Team
   Our management team, fellowship graduates, and corporate staff.
   Contact
   Contact the different branches or management of the Institute.
   Board of Directors
   See more about our Board of Directors, Board of Advisors, and Steering
   Committees.
   Innovation

   Civic Innovations
   See more about our Civic Innovations department as they seek to
   incubate new project initiatives to expand YIP’s mission!
   International Essay Contest
   Learn more about and see how to get involved with the Institute for
   Youth in Policy International Essay Contest!
   YIPTok
   YIPtok serves the institute’s goal of reaching youth across the world,
   by sharing their voices and opinions on an open platform!
   Pitch to Us
   Pitch a project to Civic Innovations, and let us help you realize your
   passions and ideas!
   Consulting Team
   YIP's consulting team offers pro-bono consulting services to other
   pnonprofits to assist in tackling any issues
   Ideological Assesment
   Take our new innovative test to find out where you fall on the
   political spectrum!
   Discourse

   Effective Discourse
   See more about our Effective Discourse department as they seek to
   encourage diverse discussions through workshops and our fellowship
   program!
   Fellowship Program
   Learn more about and our fellowship program, check out some past
   projects, and get involved!
   Policy

   Policy Research
   See more about the three main areas of research the Institute does.
   Policy Briefs & Reviews
   Concise breakdowns and summaries of policy issues and solutions.
   Opposite the Editorial
   Opinion pieces presenting inquiry-driven policy opinions and notes.
   Journal of Policy Analysis
   Inquiry-driven papers that employ diverse methods and offer precise,
   compelling insights.
   Education

   Education Home
   Learn about what our Education Department does and is currently working
   on.
   FAQs
   See Frequently Asked Questions about the department and curriculum.
   AP Annual Conference
   Learn about the Institute's partnership with the Collegeboard and
   attendance at the conference.
   Journal of Policy Analysis
   Inquiry-driven papers that employ diverse methods and offer precise,
   compelling insights.
   Join
   Support US

   Discourse,
   with Direction.
   Rounded globe representing YIP Institute.
   Visit the YIP Election Information Center
   Tap Here for
   Election Info

   ____________________ Submit

   Social Policy
   •  Published
   May 2, 2022

A Big Step Backwards

   Written by
   Gracie Adams
   Elizabeth Miller
   Josh Priest
   Sydney Rehm
   Aneesh Mazumder
   Copy Link
   Download the Brief Download icon
   The gay rights movement in the US has been gaining traction for the
   past several decades. From the overturn of the Defense of Marriage Act
   in 1996 to allowing trans athletes to compete in athletics, major
   strides have been made. However, these steps forward do not guarantee
   the protection of gay rights, as is demonstrated in the anit-queer
   legislation widely called the “Don’t Say Gay” bill. This bill has the
   potential to do significant harm to students, and may not be the most
   effective way to protect children from damaging content.

Introduction

   The Parental Rights in Education Bill introduced by the Florida House
   of Representatives, commonly known as the “Don’t Say Gay” bill,
   ‘prohibits classroom discussion about sexual orientation or gender
   identity in certain grade levels.’ The bill says that ‘a school
   district may not encourage classroom discussion about sexual
   orientation or gender identity in primary grade levels or in a manner
   that is not age-appropriate or developmentally appropriate for
   students.’

   This language is vague, but implies that some content regarding gender
   identity and sexuality may be taught if it is deemed ‘age-appropriate’.
   This may allow teaching that actively opposes LGBTQ+ identities, and
   leads many to question whether the purpose of this bill is to protect
   children from ‘ideology’, or if it is simply an attempt to embed
   conservative views about gender and sexuality in children early in
   their development.

   Also included in the bill are regulations that dictate that if a
   student is receiving resources at school for their mental or physical
   health, a parent must be notified. Supporters of the bill state that it
   will facilitate family discussions and allow parents to have more input
   in what is taught in schools, while opponents express that the bill
   will harm LGBTQ+ families and damage student’s rights.

Pointed Summary

     * The Parental Rights in Education Bill limits discussion of sexual
       orientation and gender identity in schools
     * Concerns over the bill focus primarily on the potential harm it
       will do to LGBTQ+ students and families

Current Stances

   The history of anti-gay legislation is extensive, and the Parental
   Rights in Education Bill has only been the latest addition. Anti-gay
   legislation is not confined to laws that mention LGBTQ+ individuals.
   Religious exemption laws provide citizens the opportunity to deny
   services to those who identify as LGBTQ+.

   After Elane Photography v. Willock, a 2013 New Mexico Supreme Court
   ruling that applied an anti-discrimination law when a photography
   business refused to photograph a same-sex wedding, Arizona’s Senate
   enacted Bill 1062 stating that “state action shall not substantially
   burden a person's exercise of religion even if the burden results from
   a rule of general applicability.”

   Similar laws have been passed, such as the 1996 Defense of Marriage
   Act, stating that "the word 'spouse' refers only to a person of the
   opposite sex who is a husband or a wife,” denying recognition and
   rights for same-sex couples.

Tried Policy

   Many legislators have plans to institute the Parental Rights in
   Education bill outside of Florida, in states such as Georgia and
   Louisiana. Similar legislation has been enacted in different states in
   recent years, restricting discussions and history about LGBTQ+
   identities and issues. In Tennessee, the House introduced a bill
   banning materials that “promote, normalize, support, or address
   lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT) lifestyles” in K-12
   schools. Another in Kansas, House Bill No. 2662 labels “homosexuality”
   as a Class B misdemeanor in schools.

Policy Questions

Problem

Stakeholders

   Most obviously, this bill will affect students, as it removes discourse
   around certain topics from their classrooms, and enforces disclosure of
   information around their mental and physical health to parents.

   Parents are another stakeholder, as the bill seeks to ‘reinforce the
   fundamental right of parents to make decisions regarding the upbringing
   and control of their children’. Some parents may want more control over
   what their children are taught, and specifically that it conforms to
   their own beliefs.

   The bill will also affect teachers and schools, who will be under a set
   of enforceable obligations regarding what they can and cannot tell
   children, and may face legal consequences if they get it wrong.

Risks of Indifference

   The bill requires that parents are informed of and involved in
   ‘critical decisions affecting student's mental, emotional, or physical
   well-being’, as well as to notify parents of ‘healthcare services’.
   There is concern that children of parents hostile to their potential
   gender identity or sexual orientation will be ‘outed’ to their parents
   as soon as they begin to ask these questions, and face degrading and
   harmful treatment such as conversion therapies.

Nonpartisan Reasoning

   Those in favor of the bill argue that it helps to address the problem
   of removing what they view as progressive ideology from the classroom.
   They argue that young children should not be exposed to views around
   sex and gender. Governor De Santis, a proponent of the bill, argues
   ‘First graders should not have woke gender ideology [sic] imposed in
   their curriculum, and that is what we are standing for.’

   The Senator supporting the bill also says that the bill serves to
   address ‘social engineering that could result in more children
   identifying as gay or transgender.’ These speak to a widespread belief
   that children are being corrupted by learning about progressive views
   on sex and gender. When signing the bill, DeSantis said ‘We will make
   sure that parents can send their kids to school to get an education,
   not an indoctrination.’

   The bill claims to ‘reinforce (the) fundamental right of parents to
   make decisions regarding upbringing & control of their children’,
   allowing parents to sue schools if they feel the provisions of the bill
   have been breached. For those in favor of the bill, this provides
   parents with more of a say in their childrens’ upbringing, allowing
   them to shield their children from material they view as harmful, and
   to raise their children as they see fit.

   However, removing this content from classrooms may do more harm than
   good. Campaigners against the bill argue that removing access to
   information about gender and sexuality is likely to harm children by
   not providing them with the support they need if they begin to question
   aspects of their identity.

   LGBTQ+ children already face high suicide rates, discrimination and
   abuse, and alienating them from discussion about their identities from
   the outset may compound the ostracisation and mental health
   difficulties they face. It may also lead these children to turn to
   other sources for information, such as the internet, which can lead
   them to explore content far beyond their age level, and also to
   potentially harmful information about their own identity.

   More than just erasing progressive notions of gender and sexuality,
   Brandon Wolf, press secretary of LGBTQ advocacy group Equality Florida,
   argues that the bill may further stigmatize LGBTQ+ students. He said
   ‘suggesting sexual orientation or gender identity is ‘contagious’ is
   not based in fact.’ As well as stigmatizing these students socially, it
   may cause them internal harm too.

   As mentioned above, the vague language of the bill, such as the
   ‘age-appropriate’ teaching provision, suggests that children will be
   taught content that actively reinforces conservative views on gender,
   sexuality, and the family. This may cause students to internalize
   these notions, leading to mental health issues if they do come to
   question their own identities.

   Finally, there is also a concern that teachers will be placed in
   difficult positions. When students come to them to ask questions
   relating to their sexuality or gender, teachers will be legally obliged
   to give answers that, as demonstrated above, may be harmful to these
   childrens’ development.

   Furthermore, these teachers are at risk of being sued by parents for
   not disclosing these conversations, even if they fear the children
   would be placed at risk should their conversations be revealed to
   schools and parents. This removes the ability of schools to care for
   their students. Whilst some may celebrate this, arguing that schools
   should not raise their children, others are concerned that this will
   leave children vulnerable and without a sufficient level of care.

Policy Options

   The policy of Florida’s Parental Rights in Education bill—also referred
   to as the “Don’t Say Gay” bill— is vague, with the implementation
   beginning with “notifying a student’s parent” when their child is
   receiving mental health services. Additionally, parents could “bring
   action against the school district…and seek injunctive relief” if the
   school district does not enforce the new bill, with the court awarding
   damages and “reasonable attorney fees and court costs” to the parent,
   at the school district’s expense.

   The cost to the government is minimal, as the schools themselves would
   incur the costs of the lawsuits brought forth if the parents were
   awarded damages. But schools already struggling for funding may find
   lawsuits very difficult to fund, potentially compromising the quality
   of education they provide.

   Governor Ron DeSantis signed the bill into law on March 28th, scheduled
   to be implemented on July 1st.

Conclusion

   Florida’s ‘Don’t Say Gay’ bill is the latest installment in the US’ so
   called ‘culture wars’. Proponents believe it will protect their
   children from ‘woke gender ideology’, preventing an ‘indoctrination’ in
   ideas that gender is socially constructed, or that divergence from
   heterosexuality is acceptable and normal. They argue it will return
   control to parents over how their children are raised, and what they
   are taught. Advocates hope it will prevent their children from
   questioning gender and sexuality norms, divergence from which many of
   these proponents view as morally wrong.

   Those against the bill argue that it is nothing more than a reactionary
   moral panic against progressive social ideas, and will cause
   significant harm to many children.

   There is concern that removing open discussion on these issues will
   lead children contemplating their identities to more harmful content on
   the internet, to ostracize them from their peers, and to internalize
   conceptions of themselves as wrong or prohibited, leading to mental
   health issues.

   The vague language of the bill suggests teaching contrary to liberal
   progressive ideas will be allowed, which may further compound mental
   health problems. The privacy provisions of the bill may put students at
   risk, and limit the abilities of teachers to care for children and
   schools to provide good education.

Share or Cite this Brief

   https://read.yip.institute/e8xGjFn

Brief Feedback

   (*) Radio Angry emoji - click to rate 1/5.
   ( ) Radio
   ( ) Radio
   ( ) Radio
   ( ) Radio
   Submit
   Thank you! Your submission has been received!
   Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form.
   Rounded globe representing YIP Institute.

   Join our email list:
   ____________________ Send
   Thank you! You'll get an email soon.
   Oops! Can you try again?

   © 2023 by the Institute for Youth in Policy.
   General
   About
   Team
   Research
   Join
   Contact
   Sitemap
   Legal

   Report issues or submit feedback here
   Seals
   Candid's Gold Transparency Award

   FEIN: 85-3339422 | SOS/FTBN: 4750142
   Socials
   LinkedIn Logo youtube logo
