   IFRAME: https://gtm-server.healthline.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MB6365D

     * Health Conditions
          + Featured
               o Breast Cancer
               o IBD
               o Migraine
               o Multiple Sclerosis (MS)
               o Rheumatoid Arthritis
               o Type 2 Diabetes
               o Sponsored Topics
          + Articles
               o Acid Reflux
               o ADHD
               o Allergies
               o Alzheimer's & Dementia
               o Bipolar Disorder
               o Cancer
               o Crohn's Disease
               o Chronic Pain
               o Cold & Flu
               o COPD
               o Depression
               o Fibromyalgia
               o Heart Disease
               o High Cholesterol
               o HIV
               o Hypertension
               o IPF
               o Osteoarthritis
               o Psoriasis
               o Skin Disorders and Care
               o STDs
     * Discover
          + Wellness Topics
               o Nutrition
               o Fitness
               o Skin Care
               o Sexual Health
               o Women's Health
               o Mental Well-Being
               o Sleep
          + Product Reviews
               o Vitamins & Supplements
               o Sleep
               o Mental Health
               o Nutrition
               o At-Home Testing
               o CBD
               o Men’s Health
          + Original Series
               o Fresh Food Fast
               o Diagnosis Diaries
               o You’re Not Alone
               o Present Tense
          + Video Series
               o Youth in Focus
               o Healthy Harvest
               o Through An Artist's Eye
               o Future of Health
     * Plan
          + Health Challenges
               o Mindful Eating
               o Sugar Savvy
               o Move Your Body
               o Gut Health
               o Mood Foods
               o Align Your Spine
          + Find Care
               o Primary Care
               o Mental Health
               o OB-GYN
               o Dermatologists
               o Neurologists
               o Cardiologists
               o Orthopedists
          + Lifestyle Quizzes
               o Weight Management
               o Am I Depressed? A Quiz for Teens
               o Are You a Workaholic?
               o How Well Do You Sleep?
          + Tools & Resources
               o Health News
               o Find a Diet
               o Find Healthy Snacks
               o Drugs A-Z
               o Health A-Z
     * Connect
          + Find Your Bezzy Community
               o Breast Cancer
               o Inflammatory Bowel Disease
               o Psoriatic Arthritis
               o Migraine
               o Multiple Sclerosis
               o Psoriasis
          + Follow us on social media

   (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON) Health Conditions
     * (BUTTON) Discover
     * (BUTTON) Plan
     * (BUTTON) Connect

   (BUTTON) Subscribe

LGBTQIA+ Health

     * Gender
     * Sexuality
     * Relationships
     * Wellness
     * Resources

   (BUTTON)

Your Guide to the Term ‘Transgender’ and Its Use

   Medically reviewed by Francis Kuehnle, MSN, RN-BC — By Soren Hodshire
   on June 14, 2023
     * Definition
     * Use
     * Gender nonconforming
     * Takeaway

   “Transgender” is one of many adjectives that can apply to a person. It
   simply means their current gender is not the same as the one they were
   assigned at birth.
   An illustration of a group of trans people enjoying themselves in a
   park. Share on PinterestIllustration by Whitney Williams

   We’re all expected to grow and change as we get older. We grow taller
   and wiser, and we come to a deeper understanding of ourselves.

   For some of us, this deeper understanding comes with the knowledge that
   we’ve been raised as the wrong gender.

   When a person’s true gender is different from the one they were
   assigned at birth, we describe this as being transgender.

   In this article, we explore what being transgender means and what
   gender diversity exists under the trans umbrella.

   What does ‘transgender’ mean?

   The term “transgender” (trans for short) is one of many adjectives that
   can be applied to a person. Being trans means you do not identify with
   the gender you were assigned at birth. It does not indicate what your
   gender is.

   The opposite of transgender is cisgender, which indicates that you do
   identify with the gender you were assigned at birth. Both prefixes
   “cis” and “trans” have Latin meanings:
     * trans means “across from” or “the other side of”
     * cis means “on the same side” or “the same as”

   “Transgender” is an umbrella term for many different gender identities
   and expressions. Some people may medically, socially, and legally
   transition, but doing these things is not a requirement to be
   transgender.

   Although the word we use today may not have been used in the past, the
   idea of being trans or gender nonconforming has always existed in
   Indigenous, Western, and Eastern cultures. The meanings and attributes
   of gender, gender expression, and gender roles vary from culture to
   culture, past and present.

Who falls under the transgender umbrella?

   “Transgender” is an umbrella term, meaning that many different gender
   identities and expressions are included in this community.

   For example:
     * nonbinary
     * genderfluid
     * genderqueer
     * agender
     * trans man
     * trans woman

   It’s possible to also transition to many other genders that aren’t
   exclusively man or woman, or to a mix of genders at different times,
   and you’re still part of the community.

When was the term ‘transgender’ coined?

   The first recorded use of the word “transgender” was in the book
   “Sexual Hygiene and Pathology” by John F. Oliven, MD, in 1965.
   Was this helpful? (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   How to use the term ‘transgender’

   “Transgender” is an adjective. It’s not a noun. You use it similarly to
   other adjectives like short, tall, young, or old.

   If you were describing a woman who was short, you wouldn’t call her “a
   short”; you would likely say “a short woman.” Likewise, when talking
   about someone in the transgender community, you don’t call a trans
   person “a trans,” “a transgender,” or “a they.”

   When talking about a group, some correct terms to use are “transgender
   people” or “the transgender community.”

The difference between trans man and trans woman

   A trans man is a man who is transgender. They were assigned a feminine
   sex and gender at birth and have since transitioned to a masculine
   gender. Some people still use “FTM (female-to-male)” when describing
   themselves as trans men, but this term is often considered outdated and
   should not be applied to people without their consent.

   A trans woman is a woman who is trans. They were assigned a masculine
   sex and gender at birth and have since transitioned to a feminine
   gender. They similarly might use the term “MTF (male-to-female),” but
   the same concerns about consent apply to this more outdated initialism.

   It’s important to remember that these terms are meant to express the
   gender of the person and not the genitalia you believe they have.

   To better understand the spectrum of sex and gender (including intersex
   people), you can check out this article.

Transgender or transsexual

   Most people use “transgender” in place of “transsexual.”

   “Transsexual” is considered an outdated term according to the American
   Psychological Association style guide, although some people may use it
   as an identity term for themselves. It should not be used for someone
   without their consent.

   You can learn more about the difference between “transgender” and
   “transsexual” here.

   Gender nonconforming vs. transgender

   Being gender nonconforming means you’re not conforming to the typical
   gendered standards of your culture (be it your gender expression,
   gender roles, etc.) at the time.

   Being transgender is when your gender doesn’t align with the one you
   were assigned at birth. Sometimes being gender nonconforming coincides
   with being transgender, but not always. Many gender nonconforming
   people are cisgender and heterosexual.

   This idea might seem new, but you’ve likely seen examples of it your
   entire life:
     * Someone who is a cis man, straight, and chooses to stay home to
       take care of their children would be considered gender
       nonconforming but is not transgender.
     * A cisgender woman who chooses to cut their hair short and wear a
       tuxedo at fancy events would be considered gender nonconforming but
       is not transgender.
     * A trans man who chooses to wear nail polish or makeup is both
       gender nonconforming and transgender.

   A person’s gender expression and the labels they use can often differ
   from your expectations. Sometimes you might see someone you think is
   more feminine or masculine based on your interpretations of gender, but
   they might consider themselves something else because of their own
   views.

What about pronouns?

   While many men (including trans men) use he/him pronouns, many women
   (trans women included) use she/her pronouns, and many non-binary people
   use they/them pronouns ― that’s not the case for everyone.

   If you’re unsure what pronouns someone uses, it’s easy to ask them. You
   can also learn more about pronoun use in this article.
   Was this helpful? (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   Takeaway

   Being transgender means you experience an incongruence with the gender
   you were assigned at birth.

   “Trans” is also an umbrella term that includes nonbinary, agender,
   genderqueer, and many other identities not listed here.

   Regardless of whether you fully understand someone’s gender, it’s
   important to respect the terms someone uses to express it.

   Last medically reviewed on June 14, 2023

How we reviewed this article:

   (BUTTON)
   Sources
   (BUTTON)
   History
   Healthline has strict sourcing guidelines and relies on peer-reviewed
   studies, academic research institutions, and medical associations. We
   avoid using tertiary references. You can learn more about how we ensure
   our content is accurate and current by reading our editorial policy.
     * [BBC Three]. (2017). Things not to say to a non-binary person
       [Video file].
       https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b4MZjMVgdk
     * Frequently asked questions about transgender people. (2016).
       https://transequality.org/issues/resources/frequently-asked-questio
       ns-about-transgender-people
     * [Gender Spectrum]. (2015). Beyond male, female and transgender: A
       discussion of non-binary gender identities [Video file].
       https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8pE8CqO1-zE
     * [Gender Spectrum]. (2017). Parenting non-binary kids [Video file].
       https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z-22q5PwKTs
     * Martens A. (2016). Transgender people have always existed.
       https://www.acluohio.org/en/news/transgender-people-have-always-exi
       sted
     * Understanding transgender people, gender identity and gender
       expression. (2023).
       https://www.apa.org/topics/lgbtq/transgender-people-gender-identity
       -gender-expression
     * Understanding transgender people: The basics. (2023).
       https://transequality.org/issues/resources/understanding-transgende
       r-people-the-basics
     *

   Our experts continually monitor the health and wellness space, and we
   update our articles when new information becomes available.

   Current Version

   Jun 14, 2023

   Written By

   Soren Hodshire

   Edited By

   Rayne Whitington

   Medically Reviewed By

   Francis Kuehnle, MSN, RN-BC

   Copy Edited By

   Sara Giusti

   Share this article
   Medically reviewed by Francis Kuehnle, MSN, RN-BC — By Soren Hodshire
   on June 14, 2023

Read this next

     * What’s the Difference Between Sex and Gender?
       Medically reviewed by Francis Kuehnle, MSN, RN-BC
       Society typically tells us that there are two sexes, male and
       female, and that they align with two genders, man and woman. With
       the increased…
       READ MORE
     *
     * Everything You Need to Know About Gender Affirming Care
       Medically reviewed by Catherine Hannan, M.D.
       Gender affirming care refers to social, legal, and medical measures
       that help people feel safe in their gender. Learn key terms, types,
       and why it's…
       READ MORE
     * Your Guide to Nonbinary Options for Top Surgery
       Medically reviewed by E. Mimi Arquilla, DO
       Whether you're looking to reduce or enlarge your chest, options
       exist to help you better express your gender.
       READ MORE
     * Questions You Might Be Afraid to Ask About Transmasculine Sexual
       Health
       Medically reviewed by Francis Kuehnle, MSN, RN-BC
       While trans men can still create fluid during an orgasm, they can’t
       produce sperm. Let’s look at why and other FAQs you may be afraid
       to ask.
       READ MORE
     * Understanding the Transgender Portion of Our Population
       Medically reviewed by Francis Kuehnle, MSN, RN-BC
       Worldwide the reported number of trans people can range up to 3%,
       and are typically higher in young people. Let's take a closer look
       at this…
       READ MORE
     * How to Support Your Gender Expansive Child with Gender Affirming
       Care
       Medically reviewed by Francis Kuehnle, MSN, RN-BC
       Learn what gender affirming care can entail at each age and stage
       of your child's development, from early social transitions to
       adolescent medical…
       READ MORE
     * How Does HRT Change Your Body During Transition?
       Medically reviewed by Amanda Kallen, MD
       Taking HRT during gender transition causes many changes in your
       body. Let's take a look at what you can expect.
       READ MORE
     * Is There a Difference Between Being Transgender and Transsexual?
       Medically reviewed by Janet Brito, Ph.D., LCSW, CST
       The difference between the terms transgender and transsexual depend
       on the way these words are used and experienced. Here's what you
       should know.
       READ MORE

     * About Us
     * Contact Us
     * Privacy Policy
     * Privacy Settings
     * Advertising Policy
     * Health Topics

     * Medical Affairs
     * Content Integrity
     * Newsletters
     * © 2023 Healthline Media LLC. All rights reserved. Our website
       services, content, and products are for informational purposes
       only. Healthline Media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis,
       or treatment. See additional information. See additional
       information.

   © 2023 Healthline Media LLC. All rights reserved. Our website services,
   content, and products are for informational purposes only. Healthline
   Media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. See
   additional information. See additional information.
   AboutCareersAdvertise with us

   OUR BRANDS
   HealthlineMedical News TodayGreatistPsych CentralBezzy
