   IFRAME: https://gtm-server.healthline.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MB6365D

     * Health Conditions
          + Health Conditions
               o Alzheimer's & Dementia
               o Anxiety
               o Asthma & Allergies
               o Atopic Dermatitis
               o Breast Cancer
               o Cancer
               o Cardiovascular Health
               o COVID-19
               o Diabetes
               o Environment & Sustainability
               o Exercise & Fitness
               o Eye Health
               o Headache & Migraine
               o Health Equity
               o HIV & AIDS
               o Human Biology
               o Leukemia
               o LGBTQIA+
               o Men's Health
               o Mental Health
               o Multiple Sclerosis (MS)
               o Nutrition
               o Parkinson's Disease
               o Psoriasis
               o Psoriatic Arthritis
               o Sexual Health
               o Ulcerative Colitis
               o Women's Health
     * Health Products
          + Health Products
               o Nutrition & Fitness
               o Vitamins & Supplements
               o CBD
               o Sleep
               o Mental Health
               o At-Home Testing
               o Men’s Health
               o Women’s Health
     * Discover
          + News
               o Latest News
          + Original Series
               o Medical Myths
               o Honest Nutrition
               o Through My Eyes
               o New Normal Health
          + Podcasts
               o Why exercise is key to living a long and healthy life
               o What do we know about the gut microbiome in IBD?
               o My podcast changed me
               o Can 'biological race' explain disparities in health?
               o Why Parkinson's research is zooming in on the gut
               o Can diet and exercise reverse prediabetes?
     * Tools
          + General Health
               o Drugs A-Z
               o Health Hubs
          + Health Tools
               o Find a Doctor
               o BMI Calculators and Charts
               o Blood Pressure Chart: Ranges and Guide
               o Breast Cancer: Self-Examination Guide
               o Sleep Calculator
          + Quizzes
               o RA Myths vs Facts
               o Type 2 Diabetes: Managing Blood Sugar
               o Ankylosing Spondylitis Pain: Fact or Fiction
     * Connect
          + About Medical News Today
               o Who We Are
               o Our Editorial Process
               o Content Integrity
               o Conscious Language
          + Newsletters
               o Sign Up
          + Follow Us

   (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON) Health Conditions
     * (BUTTON) Health Products
     * (BUTTON) Discover
     * (BUTTON) Tools
     * (BUTTON) Connect

   (BUTTON) Subscribe
   (BUTTON)

What does transgender mean?

   Medically reviewed by Francis Kuehnle, MSN, RN-BC — By Beth Sissons on
   September 24, 2021
     * Definition
     * How to know
     * Gender dysphoria
     * Transitioning
     * Accessing healthcare
     * Vs. sexual orientation
     * Vs. intersex
     * Vs. gender nonconforming
     * Vs. nonbinary
     * Allyship
     * Pronouns
     * Terminology to avoid
     * Summary

   A transgender means a person has a different gender identity than their
   assigned gender at birth.

   This article discusses the definition of transgender.

   It also looks at other definitions of different gender identities and
   commonly used terminology, as well as access to healthcare and allyship
   relating to transgender issues.

LGBTQIA+ resources

   To discover more evidence-based health information and resources for
   LGBTQIA+ individuals, visit our dedicated hub.
   Was this helpful? (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   What does it mean?
   A transgender woman playing the drums. Share on PinterestElisabeth
   Ubbe/Getty Images

   The National Center for Transgender Equality defines transgender people
   as those who have a different gender identity to their assigned gender
   at birth. Some people may also use “trans” as a shortened version for
   transgender.

   Gender identity is the innate knowledge of who a person is. Every
   person has a gender identity, which may match their assigned sex at
   birth, or it may be different.

   A healthcare professional usually assigns newborns either a male or
   female sex at birth. If people identify with a different gender to the
   one they were assigned, they may describe themselves as transgender.

   A transgender woman is someone who is currently living as a woman but
   was assigned a male sex at birth. A transgender man is someone who is
   currently living as a man but was assigned a female sex at birth.

   Some transgender people may not identify with being either male or
   female, or may identify as a combination of male and female. Other
   terms people may use to describe their gender identity include
   nonbinary or genderqueer.

   How would a person know if they are transgender?

   People may realize they are transgender at any age. Planned Parenthood
   notes that many people know they are transgender from a young age, and
   others may not realize until later in life.

   People may have a feeling of not fitting in, or may feel uncomfortable
   emotions when talking about their gender or being seen by others as a
   gender they do not identify with.

   A person can try the following to help them understand their gender
   identity:
     * Write about how they feel in a journal on a regular basis.
     * Talk about their feelings with people they trust.
     * Talk about their feelings with a therapist or counselor.

   A person can also try to learn about other transgender people’s
   experiences. They can do this through reading literature written by
   transgender people or meeting transgender people in person.

   It may be possible to find helpful LGBTQIA+ resources and support
   groups either in the community or at school or university.

   Transgender and gender dysphoria

   Some transgender people may experience severe emotional distress if
   there is a difference between their gender identity and assigned sex at
   birth. The medical term for this is gender dysphoria.

   Gender dysphoria can affect a person’s health, well-being, and everyday
   life. By aligning with and expressing their gender identity, people may
   be able to resolve gender dysphoria.

   The American Psychiatric Association notes that gender dysphoria often
   begins in childhood. However, some people may not experience it until
   puberty or later in life.

   What to know about transitioning

   Transitioning is the term people use for the period of time when they
   align themselves and their life with their true gender identity, rather
   than their assigned sex at birth.

   Transitioning is not necessary to be transgender, although many
   transgender people choose to transition at some point.

   There are no set steps or criteria for transitioning, and it is
   individual for each person.

   Steps some people may or may not take to transition can include:
     * changing their appearance, such as clothing and hairstyle
     * changing their name
     * changing pronouns
     * changing official documents to reflect their gender identity
     * hormone therapy to change physical characteristics
     * medical procedures to change physical characteristics

   Some people may also decide to take puberty blockers. For some, the
   changes that occur during puberty do not align with their gender
   identity.

   These block the hormones that lead to puberty, which stops periods,
   breast growth, facial hair growth, and voice-deepening.

   According to the Gender Identity Development Service, hormone blockers
   only last for as long as a person is taking the medication. If a person
   stops taking them and providing that no other interventions have
   occurred, they will go through puberty.

Gender-affirming hormones

   Some transgender people may choose to take gender-affirming hormones.
   These are hormones that create physical changes in the body to align
   with a person’s gender identity.

   People may take testosterone to develop masculine characteristics or
   estrogen to develop feminine characteristics.

Gender-affirming surgery

   Some transgender people may choose to have gender-affirming surgery.
   People may choose to have surgery that alters their face, chest, or
   anatomy to align with their gender identity.

     Learn more
     * What is T therapy, and when can a person start it?
     * How can a person receive estrogen hormone therapy, and what are the
       effects?
     * What to know about female-to-male surgery
     * Tips for presenting more feminine without hormones
     * Tips on transitioning and presenting as more feminine later in life

   Accessing healthcare as a transgender individual

   People may want to search for healthcare professionals and clinics
   where staff are trans-friendly and have appropriate training and
   knowledge in transgender issues.

   People can find local providers in their state or city through the
   Centers for Control and Disease Prevention (CDC) list of resources.

   The following organizations also provide helpful information and
   resources:
     * World Professional Association for Transgender Health
     * Fenway Health
     * Whitman-Walker Health

   GLAAD also provides a list of community resources here.

   What is the difference between sexual orientation and gender identity?

   Sexual orientation differs from gender identity. Sexual orientation
   focuses on who people are attracted to. People of any gender identity
   can have any sexual orientation.

   Learn more about different types of sexual orientations here.

   Gender identity is a person’s innate knowledge of their gender. People
   may identify as a man, woman, nonbinary person, or another gender
   identity.

   Learn more about different types of gender identities here.

   What is the difference between transgender and intersex?

   The Intersex Society of North America defines intersex as “a general
   term used for a variety of conditions in which a person is born with a
   reproductive or sexual anatomy that doesn’t seem to fit the typical
   definitions of female or male.”

   Sex chromosomes determine the biological sex of a baby. Intersex people
   may have chromosomes typical to a male or female but have no internal
   or external anatomy that corresponds to biological male or female
   anatomy.

   Transgender people are usually born with genetics and anatomy that
   match a biological definition of male or female. Transgender people may
   feel they have a different gender identity to their assigned sex at
   birth.

   Learn more about what it means to be intersex here.

   What is the difference between transgender and gender nonconforming?

   A person who is gender nonconforming does not conform to the
   stereotypical ideas of gender.

   The LGBTQIA Resource Center notes that people more commonly use the
   term to refer to gender expression instead of gender identity.

   People may choose to appear and behave in ways that are more
   “masculine” or “feminine” than society may stereotypically associate
   with their gender.

   Someone who is gender nonconforming may or may not be transgender.
   Transgender people may be gender nonconforming or they may conform to
   the gender stereotypes of the gender they identify with.

   Transgender and nonbinary

   People may describe themselves as nonbinary if they do not identify
   with either a male or female gender. Nonbinary people may not feel they
   fit into the gender binary of being a man or a woman. People may also
   use the term genderqueer to describe their gender identity.

   Nonbinary people may identify with elements of being both male and
   female, a different gender, or no gender. Some people may have a fluid
   gender that changes over time.

   Transgender people may be nonbinary, but many transgender people
   identify as either a man or a woman.

   Learn more about being nonbinary here.

   Being an ally

   Being an ally to transgender people can help create a safer and better
   society for transgender people, and people of all gender identities.

   Action steps as an ally can include:
     * respecting a transgender person’s gender identity and use of
       pronouns
     * avoiding referring to a person’s birth name or assigned sex at
       birth, if a person has changed their name
     * avoiding making any assumptions about transgender people, such as
       their sexual orientation
     * using inclusive language that avoids gender, such as “person”
       instead of “man” or “woman” in group settings
     * supporting the use of all-gender public restrooms
     * respecting that it is up to a transgender person to share their
       gender history or not, and avoiding “outing” a transgender person
     * listening to transgender people and learning about their
       experiences
     * supporting campaigns for transgender equality

   Pronoun usage

   People can make sure always to use the pronouns a transgender person
   wants them to use. If people are unsure which pronouns a person uses,
   make introductions using preferred pronouns and ask the other person
   theirs.

   If appropriate, people can also ask which terms a person wants others
   to use to describe their gender identity. Many transgender people may
   identify as a man or a woman.

   Learn more about gender pronouns here.

   Terminology to avoid

   Certain words or phrases can be very disrespectful or offensive to
   transgender people.

   According to GLAAD, terminology to avoid includes:
   Terminology to avoid Preferred terminology Reason
   a transgender or transgenders transgender people or a transgender
   person Transgender is an adjective, not a noun.
   transgendered transgender Adding “-ed” adds confusion and is
   grammatically incorrect.
   transgenderism being transgender Anti-transgender activists use the
   term “transgenderism” to dehumanize transgender people.
   sex change, pre-operative, or postoperative transition Using these
   terms implies that a person must have surgery to be transgender.
   sex change surgery or sex reassignment gender-affirming surgery With
   surgery, the person is not changing their sex, but altering their body
   to better match their gender.
   • biologically or genetically male or female
   • born a man or woman • assigned or designated male at birth
   • assigned or designated female at birth A number of factors determine
   a person’s sex. These terms oversimplify a complex subject.
   passing or stealth • visibly transgender
   • not visibly transgender The terms imply that transgender people are
   deceiving.

   Other terminology to avoid includes:
     * he-she
     * she-male
     * gender-bender
     * trannie or tranny
     * any word that implies masquerading or pretending, or “passing” as a
       man or woman

   People should also not ask questions about surgery, anatomy, or sex
   life.

   Summary

   The term transgender refers to those who do not identify with the sex
   they were assigned at birth. A person can realize they are transgender
   at any point in life.

   Transitioning is a term people use to refer to the steps a person can
   take to align themselves with their true gender identity. This can
   involve changing their pronouns, taking gender-affirming hormones, and
   undergoing gender-affirming surgery.

   However, transitioning is not necessary to be transgender.

   To be an ally, people can use correct pronouns and avoid using
   offensive terminology. They can also support appropriate campaigns and
   listen to transgender people’s experiences.

   Last medically reviewed on September 24, 2021
     * LGBTQIA+

How we reviewed this article:

   (BUTTON)
   Sources
   Medical News Today has strict sourcing guidelines and draws only from
   peer-reviewed studies, academic research institutions, and medical
   journals and associations. We avoid using tertiary references. We link
   primary sources — including studies, scientific references, and
   statistics — within each article and also list them in the resources
   section at the bottom of our articles. You can learn more about how we
   ensure our content is accurate and current by reading our editorial
   policy.
     * Frequently asked questions about transgender people. (2016).
       https://transequality.org/issues/resources/frequently-asked-questio
       ns-about-transgender-people
     * Glossary of terms — transgender. (n.d.).
       https://www.glaad.org/reference/transgender
     * Health services. (2021).
       https://www.cdc.gov/lgbthealth/health-services.htm
     * How do I know if Iʼm transgender? (n.d.).
       https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/gender-identity/transgender
       /how-do-i-know-if-im-transgender
     * LGBTQIA resource center glossary. (2020).
       https://lgbtqia.ucdavis.edu/educated/glossary
     * Puberty and physical intervention. (n.d.).
       https://gids.nhs.uk/puberty-and-physical-intervention
     * Respectful transgender terms for media use. (n.d.).
       http://www.basicrights.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/Trans-Media-R
       eference.pdf
     * Tips for allies of transgender people. (n.d.).
       https://www.glaad.org/transgender/allies
     * Transgender identities. (n.d.).
       https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/gender-identity/transgender
     * What is gender dysphoria? (2020).
       https://www.psychiatry.org/patients-families/gender-dysphoria/what-
       is-gender-dysphoria
     * What is intersex? (n.d.).
       https://isna.org/faq/what_is_intersex/

   Share this article
   Medically reviewed by Francis Kuehnle, MSN, RN-BC — By Beth Sissons on
   September 24, 2021

Latest news

     * Vegan vs. omnivore: Which diet is better for your cardiovascular
       health?
     * Twice daily electrical stimulation may help boost cognitive
       functions in Alzheimer’s disease
     * Young age at first menstrual cycle linked to heightened type 2
       diabetes risk later in life
     * Depression, constipation, and urinary tract infections may precede
       MS diagnosis
     * What personality traits are associated with lower dementia risk?
       Study offers new evidence

Related Coverage

     * Transgender vs. 'transsexual'
       Transgender and transsexual have different definitions. Learn more
       about what they mean and the terminology to avoid here.
       READ MORE
     *
     * Can transgender women have a period?
       Medically reviewed by Emelia Arquilla, DO
       Although transgender women will not get a period, they can
       experience symptoms similar to those of premenstrual syndrome, or
       PMS. Learn more here.
       READ MORE
     * Mental health for transgender men: What to know
       Medically reviewed by Francis Kuehnle, MSN, RN-BC
       Transgender men face a number of mental health concerns. Working
       past personal and societal stigmas may help them access care and
       find the support…
       READ MORE
     * What to know about mental health among transgender individuals
       Medically reviewed by Francis Kuehnle, MSN, RN-BC
       How prevalent are mental health conditions among transgender
       populations? Read on to learn more, such as which mental health
       conditions are common and…
       READ MORE

     * About Us
     * Contact Us
     * Terms of Use
     * Privacy Policy
     * Privacy Settings
     * Advertising Policy

     * Health Topics
     * Health Hubs
     * Medical Affairs
     * Content Integrity
     * Newsletters
     * © 2023 Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK. All rights reserved.
       MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical
       information published on this website is not intended as a
       substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any
       action before consulting with a healthcare professional. See
       additional information.

   © 2023 Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK. All rights reserved. MNT
   is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical
   information published on this website is not intended as a substitute
   for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before
   consulting with a healthcare professional. See additional information.
   AboutCareersAdvertise with us

   OUR BRANDS
   HealthlineMedical News TodayGreatistPsych CentralBezzy
