   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-W62DX7

   Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
   reason, some of the features on this page may not be available.

   skip navigation

   Office of Justice Programs
   Recursos en Español  |  FAQs
   Justice for Victims. Justice for All.
   Office for Victims of Crime
   Serving Transgender Victims of Sexual Assault
   Message From the Director About This Guide
   Transgender 101 Sexual Assault in the Transgender Community Tips For
   Those Who Serve Victims
   June 2014
   Printer-Friendly Option Printer-Friendly Option
                                                  Text size minus icon plus icon
                                                  Send Send email to colleague
   Transgender 101
   The Numbers The Transgender Community
   Transgender-Specific Issues

   The Givens
     * Gender Identity
     * Sexual Orientation
     * Caveats


   The Choices
     * Language
     * Physical Appearance
     * Relationships
     * Degree of "Outness"
     * Documentation


   The Nonchoices
     * Prejudice
     * Passing
     * Other People's Choices

   Resources Notes

Transgender-Specific Issues

The Choices: Physical Appearance

   This section describes
   choices related to physical appearance:
     * Gender expression.
     * Hormones.
     * Surgery.

Gender expression

   Gender expression, as opposed to gender identity, is what is on the
   outside. It is how people express their gender to others.

   All people make daily choices about what clothes to wear; whether and
   how to use or not use accessories, jewelry, and/or makeup; and how
   their hair is cut or styled. Most people have a specific look or style
   that is personally comfortable. This may also include how individuals
   walk, sit, or carry themselves.

   In the United States, women and men often are expected to make
   appearance-related choices from mutually exclusive sets of options. For
   example, although women may wear feminine-tailored clothing, use
   makeup, have a feminine hairstyle, and act "femininely," these gender
   expressions are very rarely considered acceptable for men. Other
   examples include separate women's and men's clothing departments,
   jewelry and watch display cases, and hygiene-related store shelves.

   A growing number of non-transgender individuals are breaking
   traditional gender norms. Male goth youth, for example, wear eyeliner
   and fingernail polish; business women wear pantsuits without makeup or
   jewelry; metrosexual men use moisturizing products and get manicures.
   Although gender expression is less rigid with each passing year, in
   large part expectations to conform to the stereotypes remain in place.

   Transgender people may decide to consistently present as male or female
   in alignment with societal norms. They may also deliberately choose
   both male and female gender expressions and thus have mixed, gender
   non-conforming, or genderfluid presentation. Some are more fluid about
   their gender expression, which they may change from day to day, hour to
   hour, or setting to setting either because they feel they have to
   (e.g., an individual chooses not to transition at work) or because they
   want to.
   What's That Mean?
     * FTM
     * MTF

   Some transgender people express gender in very traditional or overt
   ways to better "pass" as the gender with which they identify. For
   example, a male-to-female (MTF) transgender person may always wear
   skirts and stereotypically feminine blouses, paired with matching
   earrings and pristine makeup. A female-to-male (FTM) individual may
   wear a pressed oxford shirt and tie, dress pants and buffed shoes, and
   neatly trimmed short hair. In these cases, there is an intentional
   effort to send very clear, gendered messages to others.

   Often, as people are in the process of figuring out what feels most
   comfortable for themselves, they may experiment with styles and looks.
   They may later relax into more comfortable clothes, or clothes that
   reflect their own personal sense of style, rather than basing their
   choices on rigid cultural norms.

   Body image can play a role in how people express their gender.
   Transgender people generally have an even more uncomfortable or
   negative relationship with their bodies than non-transgender people.
   Some create a literal armor to hide or alter their bodies or to create
   a different bodily contour:
     * Some FTMs (or other people on the trans-masculine spectrum)&#151;

     * Bind their chests.
     * Wear baggy or multiple layers of clothing to help flatten the
       appearance of their chest.
     * Wear self-made or store-bought penile prosthetics.
     * Use prosthetics to allow them to urinate while standing.
     * Slouch or intentionally gain weight to add mass to their
       midsection, altering their feminine contour.

     Some MTFs (or other people on the trans-feminine spectrum)&#151;
     * Use breast or hip forms to create a more feminine contour.
     * "Gaff" or "tuck" (i.e., pull back their genitals to create a
       smoother line).
     * Wear wigs.
     * Dress in a highly stereotypical feminine way to create an outward
       appearance of undeniable femaleness.

   Safety can also be a major component of how gender is expressed. More
   detail about safety is found in the Passing section of this e-pub.
   Back to Top

Hormones

   Some transgender people&#151;but by no means all&#151;use hormones as
   part of their medical transition. According to the National Center for
   Transgender Equality's (NCTE) groundbreaking study of 6,450 transgender
   individuals, 62 percent of respondents have had some hormone therapy
   and 23 percent hope to have it in the future.^10 Hormones are available
   in injectable, pill, patch, and gel/cream formats.

   Hormones help shift bodies into a more traditionally masculine or
   feminine form. Using testosterone, for example, can deepen the voice,
   activate facial and body hair growth, redistribute fat, cause the
   clitoris to enlarge, and may stimulate male pattern balding. Vaginal
   tissue typically becomes more fragile and less elastic and may not
   lubricate easily. The vaginal opening may become smaller and tighter,
   especially if the person does not use their vagina for consensual
   sexual penetration. Testosterone use usually, but not always, results
   in the cessation of menstrual cycles and renders the individual
   infertile. Using estrogen, progesterone, and anti-androgens can cause
   breast growth, reduce body hair, redistribute body fat, soften the
   skin, cause some loss of muscle mass, and increase the risk of blood
   clots, particularly following surgery and in people who smoke. Although
   mood swings are a typical side effect of hormones in the first few
   years of use, people who use them frequently report that hormones make
   them calmer and happier.^11

   Because some of the changes from hormone use are permanent, some
   transgender people stop using hormones once they have achieved specific
   physical goals. Others stop for health reasons or because they become
   unable to afford hormones (which may not be covered by health
   insurance, even for those who have insurance). Others continue lifelong
   use, which is generally recommended for anyone who no longer generates
   their own hormones due to a hysterectomy (removal of the ovaries and
   uterus) or orchiectomy (removal of the testes), or due to age (when
   hormone levels naturally decline).

   People can acquire hormones from a health care provider or
   clinic&#151;the safest method&#151;but they may also get them on the
   street, from friends, or online (frequently without any medical
   supervision or monitoring). Non-physician prescribed hormones are
   relatively common due to a lack of access to health care, an inability
   to afford physician visits and routine laboratory tests, a preference
   not to see a physician, or a preference to avoid or an inability to
   afford psychotherapy, which a physician may require prior to
   prescribing hormones.^12

Silicone

   Some MTFs inject silicone to feminize their bodies. Silicone use is
   particularly prevalent among MTFs involved in the sex trade because it
   creates a feminine appearance without the use of hormones, which may
   limit erectile function and reduce their employment options.^13

   Although injected silicone has an immediate outcome, it also carries
   many serious health risks, including migration of the silicone away
   from the desired area, systemic illness, and even death.^14 In
   addition, because injection often happens in peer-based group settings
   and in less-than-sterile environments, needles may be re-used or
   shared, increasing the risk of acquiring HIV, hepatitis, and other
   blood-borne infections.

   Note: FTMs may also use silicone to alter the shape and contour of
   their bodies.

   If people acquire hormones through a health care provider, that
   provider should monitor the individuals' laboratory results and
   physical wellness. Many providers adhere to a standard of care to guide
   their treatment of transgender patients, which requires that a mental
   health professional also be involved.^15 Most standards of care require
   that transgender clients participate in therapy for a time, typically 3
   months to 1 year, after which the mental health care provider will
   write a letter stating that the client is ready to start medical
   treatment. This "gatekeeping" model can create additional challenges.
   For example, transgender people who visit mental health professionals
   may omit certain details about their lives out of fear that they will
   be denied the letter required by the standard of care. Past traumas,
   current mental health issues, or drug or alcohol use are generally
   known to have been used as justification for withholding these letters.
   A growing number of LGBT community health clinics and individual
   providers, however, are moving from standards of care to informed
   consent models of care, giving both transgender patients and providers
   more flexibility, autonomy, and control over the health care
   process.^16

   The risks associated with medically supervised hormone use are in line
   with the risks of many other medications. Routine monitoring, moderate
   dosing, a healthy lifestyle (e.g., exercise, healthy diet, adequate
   rest, low-to-moderate stress), and well-managed medical conditions
   (e.g., diabetes, high blood pressure, other common or rare conditions)
   help to minimize the risks associated with hormone use.

   Economics, access to medical care, and access to physicians who are
   willing to prescribe hormones often influence how and whether people
   obtain hormones as a part of their medical transition.
   Back to Top

Surgery

   Non-transgender people frequently believe there is one "transgender
   surgery," which involves the genitals. The reality is that there is no
   "one" surgery and that multiple options or combinations of surgeries
   can help people change their bodies to be more closely in line with
   their gender identity. As with hormone use, health care providers
   operating under standards of care may require their transgender clients
   to participate in therapy before surgery. In fact, surgeons
   specializing in gender-related surgeries often require letters from two
   mental health professionals rather than just one.

   The following data on surgeries were taken from the National
   Transgender Discrimination Survey conducted in 2011^17:
     * The most common FTM surgeries are mastectomy or chest
       reconstruction (41 percent) and hysterectomy (20 percent). Few have
       phalloplasty (construction of a penis) (2 percent) or other genital
       surgery (e.g., metoidioplasty and/or construction of testes) (3
       percent) because of their high cost and frequent complications, and
       dissatisfaction with the results.
     * MTF surgeries can involve breast augmentation (18 percent), facial
       feminization surgery (e.g., creating a less prominent brow or chin,
       shaving the Adams apple), vaginoplasty (creating a vagina) (20
       percent), and/or removal of the testes (21 percent). Because of the
       danger of attracting anti-transgender violence in public, some
       transgender women consider breast augmentation and facial
       feminization surgeries higher priorities than genital surgery.

Non-Suicidal Self-Injury

   Cutting, or non-suicidal self-injury (NSSI), as a way of coping with
   abuse and stress is common among transgender people. In a study of 977
   individuals, almost 42 percent had a history of NSSI, as compared to
   4-38 percent in the non-transgender population. FTMs had substantially
   higher rates of NSSI. Of transgender people who were prevented from
   transitioning (denied letters for hormones or surgery), 50 percent had
   a history of NSSI.^18

   Genital surgery, as noted above, is far more common for MTFs than FTMs.
   The difference in function and aesthetics may be among the reasons for
   this disparity, as well as the difference in cost for vaginoplasty
   (cheaper) versus phalloplasty (much more expensive).

   On rare occasions, some transgender people who have been unable to
   access surgeries due to cost and/or surgeons' refusals to operate have
   attempted self-surgery to remove their breasts, penis, or testicles.

   Contrary to popular belief, many transgender people do not feel the
   need to surgically alter their bodies. For that reason, combined with
   prohibitive costs, lack of access, and worries about functionality and
   aesthetics, FORGE believes that most transgender people do not have
   gender-related surgery. This underlying belief is supported by the
   National Transgender Discrimination Survey's broad sample of
   transgender individuals and their experiences and desires with/for
   surgery.^19
   Back to Top
   Office of Justice Programs logo
   Web Site Links Disclaimer
   OVC Home  |  Reuse Policy  |  OVC TTAC  |  FAQs  |  Contact Us  |  Site
   Map  |  Archive  |  Link to Us
   DOJ Home  |  OJP
   Home  |  CrimeSolutions.gov  |  GMS  |  Grants.gov  |  Privacy
   Policy  |  Language Access
   Legal Policies and Disclaimers  |  FOIA  |  USA.gov

   Office for Victims of Crime
   810 Seventh Street NW., Washington, DC 20531
   The Office for Victims of Crime is a component of the Office of Justice
   Programs, U.S. Department of Justice.
   OVC logo
