   Skip to main content
   Exclusive news, data and analytics for financial market
   professionalsLearn more aboutRefinitiv
   Reuters home
     * World (BUTTON)
     * Business (BUTTON)
     * Markets (BUTTON)
     * Sustainability (BUTTON)
     * Legal (BUTTON)
     * Breakingviews (BUTTON)
     * Technology (BUTTON)
     * Investigations
     * (BUTTON) More

   (BUTTON) My View
   (BUTTON)
   Register
   (BUTTON)
     * Europe

Italy's transgender women thank pope for making them feel 'more human'

   By Oriana Boselli, Antonio Denti and Philip Pullella
   November 21, 202312:12 AM UTCUpdated ago
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)

   (BUTTON)
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   TORVAIANICA, Italy/VATICAN CITY, Nov 19 (Reuters) - The run-down beach
   town of Torvaianica is about 35 kms (20 miles) south of the Vatican.

   But for transgender women who live there it had seemed light years away
   until a rapprochement with the Catholic Church that began during the
   COVID-19 lockdown and led to an invitation to have lunch with Pope
   Francis on Sunday.

   Claudia Victoria Salas, 55, and Carla Segovia, 46, both Argentinian,
   were in a group of transgender people, among about 1,200 poor and
   homeless people, who attended the lunch on the Church's World Day of
   the poor.

   To her surprise, Salas, a former sex worker, found herself seated
   opposite the pope, who is also Argentinian, at the main table in the
   auditorium, where the pontiff holds his general audiences in winter.

   "We transgenders here in Italy feel a bit more human because the fact
   that Pope Francis brings us closer to the Church is a beautiful thing,"
   Carla Segovia, 46, a sex worker, said earlier this week on the deserted
   windy beach of Torvaianica.

   "Because we need some love," she said.

   Last week, the Vatican's doctrinal office issued a statement saying
   transgender people can be godparents at Roman Catholic baptisms,
   witnesses at religious weddings and receive baptism themselves.
   Carla and Claudia Victoria sit inside the Blessed Immaculate Virgin
   Church in Torvaianica
   Transgender women participate in a lunch offered at the Vatican
   Carla stands inside the Blessed Immaculate Virgin Church in Torvaianica
   Pope Francis leads the Angelus prayer on the World Day of the Poor at
   the Vatican
   (BUTTON)

   [1/4]Carla and Claudia Victoria, transgender women, sit inside the
   Blessed Immaculate Virgin Church in Torvaianica, near Rome, Italy,
   November 16, 2023. REUTERS/Antonio Denti Acquire Licensing Rights
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   LGBT rights advocates in the church welcomed the move while
   conservatives condemned it, accusing Francis of sending confusing
   signals about sexual morality to the faithful.

   Francis, 86, has tried to make the Church more welcoming to the LGBT
   community without changing Church teachings, including one saying that
   same-sex attraction is not sinful but same-sex acts are.

   At the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, Father Andrea Conocchia, the
   pastor of the Blessed Immaculate Virgin parish in Torvaianica helped
   the transgender community with food and other assistance.

   Parish resources were stretched at the time because many people were
   cut off from income, so Conocchia asked for help from the cardinal who
   runs the pope's charities.

   As well as sending money, the cardinal arranged for them to have COVID
   vaccinations in the Vatican and to meet the pope.

   "For us, he is our saint," Salas said of Conocchia last week.

   On Sunday, Conocchia arrived at the Vatican on a bus with about 50 poor
   from his parish, including transgender people, both foreign born and
   Italian.

   "This is a fantastic opportunity for all of us transsexuals," Segovia
   said, as she entered the auditorium. "I send the pope a big kiss".

   Writing by Philip Pullella; editing by Barbara Lewis

   Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Acquire Licensing Rights, opens new tab

Read Next

     * Tesla electric vehicle dealership in Durango
       COP28categoryHow electric vehicles are accelerating the end of the
       oil age6:31 AM UTC
     * Members of Ukraine's National Guard Omega Special Purpose unit fire
       a mortar toward Russian troops in the front line town of Avdiivka
       YEARENDERUkrainians prepare for a long war. Will the West stay the
       course?7:30 AM UTC
     * British Home Secretary Cleverly visit to Rwanda
       WorldcategoryUK interior minister signs new Rwanda treaty to
       resurrect asylum planDecember 5, 2023
     * Russia's Yakutsk city hit by an extreme cold snap
       EuropecategorySwathes of Siberia freeze in temperatures below -58
       CelsiusDecember 5, 2023

   LSEG Workspace

More from Reuters

World

     * Second day of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank
       meeting in Marrakech

World Bank's Banga calls for record replenishment of fund for poorest
countries
       Africacategory · December 6, 2023 · 6:51 AM UTC
       World Bank President Ajay Banga on Wednesday called on member
       countries to make the next replenishment of the lender's fund for
       the world's poorest countries the largest ever, warning that the
       International Development Association (IDA) was being pushed to its
       limits by increasing demands.
     * U.S. Secretary of State Blinken meets with Chinese Foreign Minister
       Wang Yi in Washington
       WorldcategoryChina's Wang stresses promoting stable, healthy
       Sino-US relations with Blinken7:32 AM UTC
     * U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen testifies before House Ways
       and Means Committee hearing on President Biden's 2023 budget on
       Capitol Hill in Washington
       United StatescategoryYellen says economists 'eating their words'
       after predicting high US unemployment2:39 AM UTC
     * Robert F. Kennedy Jr enters 2024 presidential race as an
       independent candidate in Philadelphia
       United StatescategoryRFK Jr. backer to spend $15 million to get him
       on 2024 ballotsDecember 5, 2023
     * Beyond the closed-doors rhetoric, Italy wants more migrant workers
       ANALYSISItaly's Meloni talks tough on migrants while opening up to
       foreign workers8:08 AM UTC

Site Index

Browse

     * World
     * Business
     * Markets
     * Sustainability
     * Legal
     * Breakingviews
     * Technology
     * Investigations, opens new tab
     * Sports
     * Science
     * Lifestyle

About Reuters

     * About Reuters, opens new tab
     * Careers, opens new tab
     * Reuters News Agency, opens new tab
     * Brand Attribution Guidelines, opens new tab
     * Reuters Leadership, opens new tab
     * Reuters Fact Check, opens new tab
     * Reuters Diversity Report, opens new tab

Stay Informed

     * Download the App (iOS), opens new tab
     * Download the App (Android), opens new tab
     * Newsletters, opens new tab

Information you can trust

   Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
   largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide
   every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and
   international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's
   media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.

Follow Us

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

Thomson Reuters Products

     * Westlaw, opens new tab
       Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content,
       attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
     * Onesource, opens new tab
       The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and
       ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
     * Checkpoint, opens new tab
       The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and
       finance professionals.

LSEG Products

     * Workspace, opens new tab
       Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a
       highly-customised workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.
     * Data Catalogue, opens new tab
       Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market
       data and insights from worldwide sources and experts.
     * World-Check, opens new tab
       Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help
       uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

     * Advertise With Us, opens new tab
     * Advertising Guidelines, opens new tab
     * Coupons, opens new tab
     * Acquire Licensing Rights, opens new tab

     * Cookies, opens new tab
     * Terms of Use, opens new tab
     * Privacy, opens new tab
     * Digital Accessibility, opens new tab
     * Corrections, opens new tab
     * Site Feedback, opens new tab

   All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete
   list of exchanges and delays.

   © 2023 Reuters. All rights reserved
