   [tr?id=1728277257337754&ev=PageView &noscript=1] #alternate alternate

   AGA - Empower, Engage, Connect

   MENUCLOSE
     * Home
     * About
          + About AGA
          + Our History
          + Advocacy
          + Meet the Board
          + Acknowledgements
          + Work For Us
     * Information
          + Resources
          + Information Hub
          + FAQs
          + Community of Practice
     * Training
     * Events
          + Event Calendar
          + Encampment 2023
          + TGDI Writing Workshops
     * Trans Health
          + Gender Pathways
          + Clinicians Network
          + Gender Expression Collective
     * Become a Member
     * Contact
          + Contact AGA
          + Crisis Helplines

   Call us (02) 6162 1924

Information Hub

What Is Transgender?

   Transgender - or trans* for short - is an umbrella term for those whose
   gender differs from that which they were assigned at birth. This
   includes binary trans people (trans men and trans women) and non-binary
   trans people, who may use descriptors like gender-queer, bi-gender,
   a-gender, or gender-fluid (though not all non-binary people use trans
   as a descriptor - refer to our gender diversity pages for more
   information).

   Trans people may express their gender in a variety of ways and that may
   vary in certain contexts and at certain times. Therefore it is
   important to remember that there is no one way to `be' trans as it can
   mean many different things to different people. Transition for some
   people may mean changing their name and choosing a pronoun that feels
   more appropriate - a process that is often referred to as `social
   transition'. For others, transition may involve gender affirming
   medical treatments, such as hormones and surgical interventions -
   processes referred to as `medical transition'.

   Many trans people experience a feeling of distress which is clinically
   termed `dysphoria'. Dysphoria is experienced differently by different
   people and it can be both fixed (experienced consistently) and fluid
   (experienced partially or periodically). Some trans people report that
   their dysphoria is triggered when their gender is not affirmed by
   others (sometimes called `misgendering'), whilst others report that
   certain contexts, clothing types or body parts trigger their dysphoria.
   It is important to acknowledge that not all distress trans people feel
   may be dysphoria: trans people often bear a load of systemic
   discrimination which can lead to poorer mental health outcomes.

   We still do not know what makes some people trans, just as we do not
   know what makes some people cis or lesbian or even interested in sports
   or arts. Some academic fields are interested in debating how variations
   in gender diversity came to be, but the only thing that is clear is
   that transgender people are safer and happier when allowed to express
   themselves in a manner consistent with their gender identity. The best
   way to support transgender people is to let them lead their process of
   transition, which may include a need for others to respect their choice
   of name and pronouns, and reinforce their right to affirm their gender.

   Transition is a deeply personal journey that is often limited by
   circumstances and access to resources. Medical transition, for
   instance, is tightly controlled and might be geographically or
   financially inaccessible for some people. Sometimes other health issues
   can prevent a transgender person from doing all the things they wish to
   do to reinforce their gender identity. The process of medically
   transitioning can also be a very gradual one and differs from person to
   person. This may include choosing some treatments for a period of time
   and then choosing to stop (for example, using hormone therapy for a
   year, and then ceasing). It is important not to force expectations on
   transgender people but to allow them autonomy over their own lives and
   treat them with respect. If medically transitioning for example, is not
   something a person would like to pursue, this does not make them any
   `less' trans, but simply means their transition may look different from
   what is often expected of transgender people.

   Many statistics show alarmingly high rates of depression, anxiety and
   suicidality within the transgender community. Mental illness is often
   not associated directly with being transgender, but with the stigma and
   discrimination that transgender people face in daily life. These same
   statistics also show better mental health outcomes for those who are
   able to transition, as well as those who engage with transgender
   communities.


   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/-3ZzpTxjgRw?feature=oembed

Key Points

     * Being transgender is not about being deceptive or "tricking"
       people, but presenting authentically to live a happier life .
     * How transgender people decide to affirm their gender is a personal
       choice. This may be a gradual process and may be limited by
       personal circumstances.
     * Trans people may choose diverse ways of expressing their gender,
       which can be influenced by particular circumstances. It may take
       someone a while to find the most comfortable way of expressing
       their gender. Be respectful of where a transgender person is at,
       and be sensitive to how they are choosing to express themselves at
       a given time.
     * It is very important to respect the names and pronouns trans people
       choose for themselves, especially if they do not fit societal views
       of male or female.
     * Transition and gender affirmation are positive processes that are
       beneficial to the mental health of trans people. Mental illness in
       the trans community is rooted in discrimination and the
       inaccessibility of transition procedures that many trans people
       face.

   AGA - Empower, Engage, Connect
   Connect with us Find us on facebook!
     * About AGA
     * Become a Member
     * Contact Us
     * Advocacy
     * Donate
     * Crisis Helplines

   © 2023 A Gender Agenda Inc
   Privacy Policy
   Website forms are processed using zapier Site by Rowdy Digital
