   Skip Navigation

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P7VWKX

   Skip Navigation
   Johns Hopkins Medicine (BUTTON) Johns Hopkins Medicine Menu
     * Johns Hopkins Medicine Home
     * About
     * Patient Care
     * Health
     * Research
     * School of Medicine

     * MyChart
     * Schedule an Appointment
     * Find a Doctor
     * Pay Your Bill
     * Employment

   (BUTTON) Close
   (BUTTON) Covid-19

COVID-19 Updates

   Review our resources for guidelines about COVID-19.
     * Vaccines
     * Masking Guidelines
     * Visitor Guidelines

   (BUTTON) Close
   (BUTTON) Search
   Search Johns Hopkins Medicine
   ____________________

   (BUTTON) Search
   (BUTTON) Close

Health

   Health
   (BUTTON) Close Main Menu

Health Main Menu

     * Health
     * Conditions and Diseases
     * Treatments, Tests and Therapies
     * Wellness and Prevention
     * Caregiving

   Health Wellness and Prevention

   Two transgender people laughing

   Two transgender people laughing

   Two transgender people laughing

Transgender Health: What You Need to Know

     * Share on Facebook
     * Share on Twitter
     * Share on Linkedin
     * Share on Pinterest
     * Share via Email
     * Print this Page

   LGBTQ Health Gender Affirmation

   The following health concerns are relevant to many transgender and
   gender-expansive people (sometimes called gender non-binary or gender
   diverse). While these issues may not apply to everyone, they are
   important for everyone and their health providers to consider.

Barriers to Health Care

   Some transgender people may not consult health care services because
   they have had negative experiences with doctors in the past. For that
   reason, organizations such as the World Professional Association for
   Transgender Health (WPATH) have created resources to help transgender
   people find knowledgeable, supportive, caring and compassionate
   providers in their communities.

   For the best care possible, people should feel empowered to take an
   active role in their health by:
     * Voicing concerns if something doesn’t seem right.
     * Asking questions if they are unsure about any information.
     * Being forthcoming about any medications and past surgeries, as
       these may affect treatment plans and preventive care options.

Transgender Violence

   Transgender and gender-expansive people face a disproportionately high
   risk of physical and sexual violence in our society, much of which is
   motivated by hate or fear, and stems from a lack of understanding and
   acceptance. This violence can be perpetrated by loved ones, family and
   friends, or strangers, and can occur in the home, school, workplace or
   on the street.

Intimate Partner Violence

   Intimate partner violence (sometimes called domestic violence) involves
   physical or emotional harm by a significant other — usually a partner,
   spouse or date. Typically, intimate partner violence begins with verbal
   threats and can escalate to physical abuse. Early recognition is
   important and individuals can seek help as soon as possible. Intimate
   partner violence often involves manipulation and control. Some of the
   barriers faced by gender-expansive survivors of intimate partner
   violence include:
     * Access to support services.
     * Lack of training on the part of service providers.
     * Discrimination in shelters.

   The National Coalition Against Domestic Violence has information on
   services and organizations that are inclusive and supportive of trans
   survivors. Research suggests that gender diverse people face intimate
   partner violence at much higher rates than other adults. However,
   victims may be hesitant to seek help because they fear discrimination
   from law enforcement and health care providers. Sadly, not all intimate
   partner violence resources accommodate transgender and gender-expansive
   people, but specific assistance is available in certain areas.

Workplace Discrimination

   Twenty-six percent of transgender and gender-expansive adults report
   being fired because of their identity. Because gender diverse people
   face such extreme job discrimination, some may turn to sex work as a
   last resort. This puts them at far greater risk of physical and sexual
   violence. Make sure you know your rights as an employee.

Sexual and Reproductive Health

Fertility Options

   Some gender-expansive people aspire to have children or be parents.
   Because of this, all reproductive options and future plans, such as
   sperm banking, should be discussed with individuals before medical or
   surgical procedures that may reduce their future reproductive options.

   Additionally, it’s important for gender-expansive people and their
   families to find a provider or center that understands their specific
   needs and offers services in a caring and compassionate environment. If
   you are interested in your fertility options, please consider
   discussing this during your intake interview with the Johns Hopkins
   Center for Transgender and Gender Expansive Health.

The Center for Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Team at Johns Hopkins

   Embracing diversity and inclusion, the Center for Transgender and
   Gender Expansive Health provides affirming, objective, person-centered
   care to improve health and enhance wellness; educates interdisciplinary
   health care professionals to provide culturally competent,
   evidence-based care; informs the public on transgender health issues;
   and advances medical knowledge by conducting biomedical research.
   More about the Center for Transgender and Gender Expansive Health

Preventive Care and Screenings

   Sexual and reproductive health concerns for trans people may not be
   addressed due to the perception that people who have had gender
   affirmation surgery may not require clinical Pap tests, breast exams or
   prostate cancer screening.

   These stereotypes and associated discrimination may make it
   uncomfortable for some gender-expansive people to access these
   important health care services. But while it may be unpleasant or even
   traumatic for some trans people to bring up these issues, early
   detection is essential for catching cancers while they are still
   treatable.

   With that in mind, it is imperative that all individuals with a uterus,
   cervix, breasts or a prostate gland be offered regular preventive and
   diagnostic screenings for those organs.

Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs)

   Some transgender people are at greater risk for certain STIs. Aside
   from abstinence, the best method to prevent STIs is to use barriers,
   such as external condoms, internal condoms or dental dams, with every
   sexual encounter.

   Fearing rejection or danger, trans people may not pressure their
   partners to use condoms — especially if sex work is involved or if the
   partner is violent. Barrier methods play an enormous role in STI
   prevention, so it is important for transgender and gender-expansive
   people to feel empowered to make safe sex decisions. There are a few
   sexually transmitted infections you should be aware of:

Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)

   HIV  is a virus that can lead to Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
   (AIDS) if left untreated. HIV impairs the immune system’s ability to
   fight infections and certain cancers. HIV is spread through direct
   contact with body fluids that contain the virus — often through needle
   sharing and anal, vaginal and (very rarely) oral sex. Knowing your HIV
   status is an important part of protecting yourself and others.

   Trans people at risk of HIV infection can talk with their health care
   provider about taking pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to prevent HIV.
   PrEP is a drug that, when combined with consistent condom use, can
   minimize HIV transmission. Ask your primary care clinician if PrEP is
   right for you.

Syphilis

   Syphilis is a bacterial infection that causes small painless sores on
   your genitalia. It can harm the heart and nervous system if not treated
   in a timely manner. Syphilis is transmitted through oral, anal and
   vaginal sex.

Gonorrhea

   Gonorrhea is a bacterial infection that causes painful urination and
   excessive discharge from the vagina or penis. It can lead to fertility
   complications if left untreated. Gonorrhea is passed between partners
   through oral, anal and vaginal sex. New, more drug-resistant strains
   are becoming increasingly common. It is important to be tested to
   ensure adequate treatment.

Chlamydia

   Chlamydia is a bacterial infection that causes painful urination,
   excessive vaginal discharge, and sometimes testicular swelling. Often
   times there are no symptoms for the first few weeks. If left untreated,
   chlamydia can lead to pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), ectopic
   pregnancy, infertility, and long term pelvic pain. Chlamydia is passed
   between partners through oral, anal and vaginal sex. It is important to
   be tested and treated for chlamydia in a timely manner.

Hepatitis A and B

   Hepatitis A and hepatitis B are viral infections that cause damage to
   the liver. Hepatitis A is mostly spread through contaminated food but
   can also be spread through anal and oral sex. Hepatitis B is
   transmitted through needle sharing and anal, oral and vaginal sex.
   Hepatitis A infections usually clear on their own, but hepatitis B can
   cause permanent or chronic damage to the liver, resulting in liver
   cancer.

   Vaccines to prevent hepatitis A and B are available, and transgender
   people should discuss them with their health care provider to ensure
   initial vaccinations and booster shots are received.

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

   HPV is a group of viruses that can cause genital warts and certain
   cancers. HPV is spread through oral, anal and vaginal sex. A vaccine
   may be able to protect some people from the forms of HPV that can lead
   to certain cancers.

Other Infections

   Meningitis is most often spread through germs in coughs and sneezes,
   but can also be passed to others through close contact. People with
   compromised immune systems — for example, those living with HIV or AIDS
   — are especially at risk. People should talk to their health care
   providers about immunization against meningitis.

Substance Use Disorder

   Gender-expansive people are more likely than the general population to
   drink alcohol and smoke, and these behaviors are often linked to the
   high levels of discrimination and lack of acceptance faced by trans
   individuals in our society.

   This is a very important health concern because the use of these
   substances is linked to substance use disorder, multiple forms of
   cancer and conditions of the heart and lungs. Among other dangerous
   health effects, tobacco use puts people at much higher risk for several
   cancers. It also contributes to wound healing complications if you
   decide to proceed with gender affirming surgery. Excessive alcohol use
   contributes to permanent liver damage and risky sexual behaviors. The
   use of illicit substances can increase risk for some of the infections
   listed above. Drug use or misuse use may also impair psychological
   stability and lead to further mental health problems.

   Trans people who do not have reliable access to hormones from their
   doctor may try to get them elsewhere. In proper doses, hormones are
   safe, but they should be prescribed and monitored by a physician to
   guard against dangerous side effects.

Silicone Injections

   The use of unmonitored silicone injections is also a health concern for
   trans people who may be unable to access professional cosmetic surgery.
   These illegal injections often contain toxic ingredients and can lead
   to severe disfigurement and even death.

Glossary of Transgender Terms

   This glossary serves as an introduction to the appropriate language
   used when talking about transgender health.
   Visit the glossary of transgender terms
   (BUTTON) Find a Doctor

   Specializing In:
     * Transgender Health
     * Gender Affirmation Surgery

   At Another Johns Hopkins Member Hospital:
     * Howard County Medical Center
     * Sibley Memorial Hospital
     * Suburban Hospital

   (BUTTON) Find a Treatment Center
     * Center for Transgender and Gender Expansive Health

   Find Additional Treatment Centers at:
     * Howard County Medical Center
     * Sibley Memorial Hospital
     * Suburban Hospital

Related

   gender affirmation services
   Gender Affirmation: Do I Need Surgery? Gender Affirmation Nonsurgical
   Services Gender Affirmation Surgeries Transgender and Gender-Diverse
   Voice Care

Request an Appointment

   Find a Doctor
     * 844-546-5645 Maryland
     * 855-695-4872 Outside of Maryland
     * +1-410-502-7683 International

   Find a Doctor
   (BUTTON) See More

  Related

     * gender affirmation services Gender Affirmation
       Gender Affirmation: Do I Need Surgery?
     * transgender patients Gender Affirmation
       Gender Affirmation Nonsurgical Services
     * A transgender woman in a hospital gown having a conversation with a
       doctor, a transgender man. Gender Affirmation
       Gender Affirmation Surgeries

  Related Topics

     * LGBTQ Health
     * Gender Affirmation

Health

     * Conditions and Diseases
     * Treatments, Tests and Therapies
     * Wellness and Prevention
     * Caregiving

   Johns Hopkins Medicine Logo Johns Hopkins Medicine logo
   Language Assistance Available:
     * Español
     * አማርኛ
     * 繁體中文
     * Français
     * Tagalog
     * Русский
     * Português
     * Italiano
     * Tiếng Việt
     * Ɓàsɔ́ɔ̀-wùɖù-po-nyɔ̀
     * Igbo asusu
     * èdè Yorùbá
     * বাংলা
     * 日本語
     * 한국어
     * Kreyòl Ayisyen
     * العربية
     * Deutsch
     * Polski
     * Ελληνικά
     * ગુજરાતી
     * ภาษาไทย
     * اُردُو
     * فارسی
     * हिंदी
     * Deitsch
     * ខ្មែរ
     *
     *

   Contact & Privacy Information
   Contact Us | Patient Care Locations
   Notice of Privacy Practices | Privacy Statement
   Terms & Conditions of Use | Non-Discrimination Notice
   Copyright © 2023 The Johns Hopkins University, The Johns Hopkins
   Hospital, and Johns Hopkins Health System. All rights reserved.

   back to top button
