   #Pew Research Center’s Social & Demographic Trends Project » Feed Pew
   Research Center’s Social & Demographic Trends Project » Comments Feed
   alternate alternate alternate JSON Representation Prism XML Version
   Plain Text Version

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MVFJNW

   Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World
   Newsletters Press Donate My Account Contacted By Us?

   Pew Research Center Logo

   Read our research on: Israel | Internet & Technology | Science
   Pew Research Center Logo
   ____________________ (BUTTON)

   Research Topics
   All PublicationsMethodsShort ReadsTools & ResourcesExpertsAbout

Topics

   Politics & PolicyInternational AffairsImmigration & MigrationRace &
   EthnicityReligionAge & GenerationsGender & LGBTQ
   Family & RelationshipsEconomy & WorkScienceInternet & TechnologyNews
   Habits & MediaMethodological ResearchFull topic list

Regions & Countries

   Asia & the PacificEurope & RussiaLatin AmericaMiddle East & North
   AfricaNorth AmericaSub-Saharan AfricaMultiple Regions / Worldwide

Formats

   FeaturesFact SheetsVideosData Essays

   Research Topics

Topics

   Politics & PolicyInternational AffairsImmigration & MigrationRace &
   EthnicityReligionAge & GenerationsGender & LGBTQFamily &
   RelationshipsEconomy & WorkScienceInternet & TechnologyNews Habits &
   MediaMethodological ResearchFull topic list

Regions & Countries

   Asia & the PacificEurope & RussiaLatin AmericaMiddle East & North
   AfricaNorth AmericaSub-Saharan AfricaMultiple Regions / Worldwide

Formats

   FeaturesFact SheetsVideosData Essays
   All PublicationsMethodsShort ReadsTools &
   ResourcesExpertsAboutNewslettersPressMy AccountContacted By Us?
   DONATE
   ____________________ (BUTTON)

   Read our research on: Israel | Internet & Technology | Science
   Home Research Topics Gender & LGBT LGBT Attitudes & Experiences Gender
   Identity

   Pew Research CenterJune 28, 2022

Americans’ Complex Views on Gender Identity and Transgender Issues

Most favor protecting trans people from discrimination, but
fewer support policies related to medical care for gender transitions; many
are uneasy with the pace of change on trans issues

   By Kim Parker, Juliana Menasce Horowitz and Anna Brown

Most favor protecting trans people from discrimination, but
fewer support policies related to medical care for gender transitions; many
are uneasy with the pace of change on trans issues

   How we did this
   (BUTTON)

   Pew Research Center conducted this study to better understand
   Americans’ views about gender identity and people who are transgender
   or nonbinary. These findings are part of a larger project that includes
   findings from six focus groups on the experiences and views of
   transgender and nonbinary adults and estimates of the share of U.S.
   adults who say their gender is different from the sex they were
   assigned at birth.

   This analysis is based on a survey of 10,188 U.S. adults. The data was
   collected as a part of a larger survey conducted May 16-22, 2022.
   Everyone who took part is a member of the Center’s American Trends
   Panel (ATP), an online survey panel that is recruited through national,
   random sampling of residential addresses. This way, nearly all U.S.
   adults have a chance of selection. The survey is weighted to be
   representative of the U.S. adult population by gender, race, ethnicity,
   partisan affiliation, education and other categories. Read more about
   the ATP’s methodology. See here to read more about the questions
   used for this report and the report’s methodology.
   Terminology
   (BUTTON)

   References to White, Black and Asian adults include only those who are
   not Hispanic and identify as only one race. Hispanics are of any race.

   All references to party affiliation include those who lean toward that
   party. Republicans include those who identify as Republicans and those
   who say they lean toward the Republican Party. Democrats include those
   who identify as Democrats and those who say they lean toward the
   Democratic Party.

   References to college graduates or people with a college degree
   comprise those with a bachelor’s degree or more. “Some college”
   includes those with an associate degree and those who attended college
   but did not obtain a degree.

   The terms “transgender” and “trans” are used interchangeably throughout
   this report to refer to people whose gender is different from the sex
   they were assigned at birth.
   A chart showing Most favor protecting trans people from discrimination,
   even as growing share say gender is determined by sex at birth

   As the United States addresses issues of transgender rights and the
   broader landscape around gender identity continues to shift, the
   American public holds a complex set of views around these issues,
   according to a new Pew Research Center survey.

   Roughly eight-in-ten U.S. adults say there is at least some
   discrimination against transgender people in our society, and a
   majority favor laws that would protect transgender individuals from
   discrimination in jobs, housing and public spaces. At the same time,
   60% say a person’s gender is determined by their sex assigned at birth,
   up from 56% in 2021 and 54% in 2017.

   The public is divided over the extent to which our society has accepted
   people who are transgender: 38% say society has gone too far in
   accepting them, while a roughly equal share (36%) say society hasn’t
   gone far enough. About one-in-four say things have been about right.
   Underscoring the public’s ambivalence around these issues, even among
   those who see at least some discrimination against trans people, a
   majority (54%) say society has either gone too far or been about right
   in terms of acceptance.

   The fundamental belief about whether gender can differ from sex
   assigned at birth is closely aligned with opinions on transgender
   issues. Americans who say a person’s gender can be different from their
   sex at birth are more likely than others to see discrimination against
   trans people and a lack of societal acceptance. They’re also more
   likely to say that our society hasn’t gone far enough in accepting
   people who are transgender. But even among those who say a person’s
   gender is determined by their sex at birth, there is a diversity of
   viewpoints. Half of this group say they would favor laws that protect
   trans people from discrimination in certain realms of life. And about
   one-in-four say forms and online profiles should include options other
   than “male” or “female” for people who don’t identify as either.

   Related: The Experiences, Challenges and Hopes of Transgender and
   Nonbinary U.S. adults
   Chart showing Young adults, Democrats more likely to say society hasn’t
   gone far enough in accepting people who are transgender

   When it comes to issues surrounding gender identity, young adults are
   at the leading edge of change and acceptance. Half of adults ages 18 to
   29 say someone can be a man or a woman even if that differs from the
   sex they were assigned at birth. This compares with about four-in-ten
   of those ages 30 to 49 and about a third of those 50 and older. Adults
   younger than 30 are also more likely than older adults to say society
   hasn’t gone far enough in accepting people who are transgender (47% vs.
   39% of 30- to 49-year-olds and 31% of those 50 and older)

   These views differ even more sharply by partisanship. Democrats and
   those who lean to the Democratic Party are more than four times as
   likely as Republicans and Republican leaners to say that a person’s
   gender can be different from the sex they were assigned at birth (61%
   vs. 13%). Democrats are also much more likely than Republicans to say
   our society hasn’t gone far enough in accepting people who are
   transgender (59% vs. 10%). For their part, 66% of Republicans say
   society has gone too far in accepting people who are transgender.

   Amid a national conversation over these issues, many states are
   considering or have put in place laws or policies that would directly
   affect the lives of transgender and nonbinary people – that is, those
   who don’t identify as a man or a woman. Some of these laws would limit
   protections for transgender and nonbinary people; others are aimed at
   safeguarding them. The survey finds that a majority of U.S. adults
   (64%) say they would favor laws that would protect transgender
   individuals from discrimination in jobs, housing and public spaces such
   as restaurants and stores. But there is also a fair amount of support
   for specific proposals that would limit how trans people can
   participate in certain activities and navigate their day-to-day lives.

   Roughly six-in-ten adults (58%) favor proposals that would require
   transgender athletes to compete on teams that match the sex they were
   assigned at birth (17% oppose this, 24% neither favor nor oppose).^1
   And 46% favor making it illegal for health care professionals to
   provide someone younger than 18 with medical care for a gender
   transition (31% oppose). The public is more evenly split when it comes
   to making it illegal for public school districts to teach about gender
   identity in elementary schools (41% favor and 38% oppose) and
   investigating parents for child abuse if they help someone younger than
   18 get medical care for a gender transition (37% favor and 36% oppose).
   Across the board, views on these policies are deeply divided by party.
   Views of laws and policies related to transgender issues differ widely
   by party

   When asked what has influenced their views on gender identity –
   specifically, whether they believe a person can be a different gender
   than the sex they were assigned at birth – those who believe gender can
   be different from sex at birth and those who do not point to different
   factors. For the former group, the most influential factors shaping
   their views are what they’ve learned from science (40% say this has
   influenced their views a great deal or a fair amount) and knowing
   someone who is transgender (38%). Some 46% of those who say gender is
   determined by sex at birth also point to what they’ve learned from
   science, but this group is far more likely than those who say a
   person’s gender can be different from their sex at birth to say their
   religious beliefs have had at least a fair amount of influence on their
   opinion (41% vs. 9%).

   The nationally representative survey of 10,188 U.S. adults was
   conducted May 16-22, 2022. Previously published findings from the
   survey show that 1.6% of U.S. adults are trans or nonbinary, and the
   share is higher among adults younger than 30. More than four-in-ten
   U.S. adults know someone who is trans and 20% know someone who is
   nonbinary. Among the other key findings in this report:

   Nearly half of U.S. adults (47%) say it’s extremely or very important
   to use a person’s new name if they transition to a gender that is
   different from the sex they were assigned at birth and change their
   name. A smaller share (34%) say the same about using someone’s new
   pronouns (such as “he” instead of “she”). A majority of Democrats (64%)
   – compared with 28% of Republicans – say it’s at least very important
   to use someone’s new name if they go through a gender transition and
   change their name. And while 51% of Democrats say it’s extremely or
   very important to use someone’s new pronouns, just 14% of Republicans
   say the same.

   Many Americans express discomfort with the pace of change around issues
   of gender identity. Some 43% say views on issues related to people who
   are transgender or nonbinary are changing too quickly, while 26% say
   things aren’t changing quickly enough and 28% say the pace of change is
   about right. Adults ages 65 and older are the most likely to say views
   on these issues are changing too quickly; conversely, those younger
   than 30 are the most likely to say they’re not changing quickly
   enough.

   More than four-in-ten (44%) say forms and online profiles that ask
   about a person’s gender should include options other than “male” and
   “female” for people who don’t identify as either. Some 38% say the same
   about government documents such as passports and driver’s licenses.
   Half of adults younger than 30 say government documents that ask about
   a person’s gender should provide more than two gender options, compared
   with about four-in-ten or fewer among those in older age groups. Views
   differ even more widely by party: While majorities of Democrats say
   forms and online profiles (64%) and government documents (58%) should
   offer options other than “male” and “female,” about eight-in-ten
   Republicans say they should not (79% say this about forms and online
   profiles and 83% say this about government documents).

   Democrats and Republicans who agree that a person’s gender is
   determined by their sex at birth often have different views on
   transgender issues. A majority (61%) of Democrats – but just 31% of
   Republicans – who say a person’s gender is determined by the sex they
   were assigned at birth say there is at least a fair amount of
   discrimination against transgender people in our society today. And
   while 62% of Democrats who say gender is determined by sex at birth say
   they would favor policies that protect trans individuals against
   discrimination, fewer than half of their Republican counterparts say
   the same.

   Democrats’ views on some transgender issues vary by age. Among
   Democrats younger than 30, about seven-in-ten (72%) say someone can be
   a man or a woman even if that’s different from the sex they were
   assigned at birth, and 66% say society hasn’t gone far enough in
   accepting people who are transgender. Smaller majorities of Democrats
   30 and older express these views. Age is less of a factor among
   Republicans. In fact, similar shares of Republicans ages 18 to 29 and
   those 65 and older say a person’s gender is determined by their sex at
   birth (88% each) and that society has gone too far in accepting people
   who are transgender (67% of Republicans younger than 30 and 69% of
   those 65 and older).

   About three-in-ten parents of K-12 students (29%) say at least one of
   their children has learned about people who are transgender or
   nonbinary from a teacher or another adult at their school. Similar
   shares across regions and in urban, suburban and rural areas say their
   children have learned about this in school, as do similar shares of
   Republican and Democratic parents. Views on whether it’s good or bad
   that their children have or haven’t learned about people who are trans
   or nonbinary at school vary by party and by children’s age. For
   example, among parents of children in elementary school, 45% say either
   that their children have learned about this and that’s a bad thing or
   that they haven’t learned about it and that’s a good thing. A smaller
   share of parents of middle and high schoolers (34%) say the same.
   Republican parents are much more likely than Democratic parents to say
   this, regardless of their child’s age.

A rising share say a person’s gender is determined by their sex at birth

   Majority of U.S. adults say gender is determined by sex assigned at
   birth

   Six-in-ten U.S. adults say that whether a person is a man or a woman is
   determined by their sex assigned at birth. This is up from 56% one year
   ago and 54% in 2017. No single demographic group is driving this
   change, and patterns in who is more likely to say this are similar to
   what they were in past years.

   Today, half or more in all age groups say that gender is determined by
   sex assigned at birth, but this is a less common view among younger
   adults. Half of adults younger than 30 say this, lower than the 60% of
   30- to 49-year-olds who say the same. Even higher shares of those 50 to
   64 (66%) and those 65 and older (64%) say a person’s gender is
   determined by their sex at birth.

   The party gap on this issue remains wide. The vast majority of
   Republicans and those who lean toward the GOP say gender is determined
   by sex assigned at birth (86%), compared with 38% of Democrats and
   Democratic leaners. Most Democrats say that whether a person is a man
   or a woman can be different from their sex at birth (61% vs. just 13%
   of Republicans). Liberal Democrats are particularly likely to hold this
   view – 79% say a person’s gender can be different from sex at birth,
   compared with 45% of moderate or conservative Democrats. Meanwhile, 92%
   of conservative Republicans say gender is determined by sex at birth
   and 74% of moderate or liberal Republicans agree.

   Democrats ages 18 to 29 are also substantially more likely than older
   Democrats to say that someone’s gender can be different from their sex
   assigned at birth, although majorities of Democrats across age groups
   share this view. About seven-in-ten Democrats younger than 30 say this
   (72%), compared with about six-in-ten or fewer in the older age groups.
   Among Republicans, there is no clear pattern by age. About eight-in-ten
   or more Republicans across age groups – including 88% each among those
   ages 18 to 29 and those 65 and older – say a person’s gender is
   determined by their sex at birth.

   The view that a person’s gender is determined by their sex assigned at
   birth is more common among those with lower levels of educational
   attainment and those living in rural areas or in the Midwest or South.
   This view is also more prevalent among men and Black Americans.

   A solid majority of those who do not know a transgender person say that
   whether a person is a man or a woman is determined by sex assigned at
   birth (68%), while those who do know a trans person are more evenly
   split. About half say gender is determined by sex assigned at birth
   (51%), while 48% say gender and sex assigned at birth can be
   different.

   Though Republicans who know a trans person are more likely than
   Republicans who don’t to say gender can be different from sex assigned
   at birth, more than eight-in-ten in both groups (83% and 88%,
   respectively) say gender is determined by sex at birth. Meanwhile,
   there are large differences between Democrats who do and do not know a
   transgender person. A majority of Democrats who do know a trans person
   (72%) say someone can be a man or a woman even if that differs from
   their sex assigned at birth, while those who don’t know anyone who is
   transgender are about evenly split (48% say gender is determined by sex
   assigned at birth while 51% say it can be different).

Many Americans point to science when asked what has influenced their views on
whether gender can differ from sex assigned at birth

   When asked about factors that have influenced their views about whether
   someone’s gender can be different from the sex they were assigned at
   birth, 44% say what they’ve learned from science has had a great deal
   or a fair amount of influence. About three-in-ten (28%) point to their
   religious views and about two-in-ten (22%) say knowing someone who is
   transgender has influenced their views at least a fair amount. Smaller
   shares say what they’ve heard or read in the news (15%) or on social
   media (14%) has had a great deal or a fair amount of influence on their
   views.
   Chart showing More than four-in-ten U.S. adults say science has
   influenced their views of gender and sex at least a fair amount

   The factors people point to on this topic differ by whether or not they
   say gender is determined by sex at birth. Among those who say that
   whether someone is a man or a woman is determined by the sex they were
   assigned at birth, 46% say what they’ve learned from science has
   influenced their views on this at least a fair amount, while 41% say
   the same about their religious views. About one-in-ten point to what
   they’ve heard or read in the news (12%), what they’ve heard or read on
   social media (11%) or knowing someone who’s transgender (11%).

   Among those who say someone can be a man or a woman even if that’s
   different from the sex they were assigned at birth, 40% say their views
   on this topic have been influenced at least a fair amount by what
   they’ve learned from science. A similar share say the same about
   knowing a transgender person (38%). Smaller shares in this group say
   what they’ve heard or read in the news (19%) or on social media (18%)
   or their religious views (9%) have had a great deal or a fair amount of
   influence.

   Among those who say gender is determined by sex assigned at birth,
   adults younger than 30 stand out as being more likely than their older
   counterparts to say their knowledge of science (60%), what they’ve
   heard or read on social media (22%) or knowing someone who is trans
   (17%) influenced this view a great deal or a fair amount. In turn,
   those ages 65 and older tend to be more likely than younger age groups
   to cite their religious views (51% in the older group say this has had
   at least a fair amount of influence).

   Republicans who say gender is determined by sex assigned at birth are
   more likely than Democrats with the same view to say their knowledge of
   science (52% vs. 40%) and their religious views (45% vs. 34%) have had
   at least a fair amount of influence, while Democrats are more likely
   than Republicans to say the news (17% vs. 10%), social media (16% vs.
   10%) and knowing someone who is trans (15% vs. 9%) have influenced them
   – though the shares are still small among both groups.
   U.S. adults with different viewpoints on gender and sex say their
   opinions have been influenced by different factors

   On the flip side, among those who say someone’s gender can
   be different from the sex they were assigned at birth, adults younger
   than 30 are also more likely than older adults to say social media has
   contributed to this view at least a fair amount (33% vs. 15% or fewer
   among older age groups). Adults ages 65 and older are more likely than
   their younger counterparts to say what they’ve learned from science has
   influenced their view (46% vs. 40% or fewer).

   Democrats who say whether someone is a man or a woman can be different
   from their sex at birth are more likely than Republicans with the same
   view to say that what they’ve learned from science (43% vs. 26%) and
   knowing someone who is transgender (40% vs. 26%) has influenced their
   view a great deal or a fair amount.

Public sees discrimination against trans people and limited acceptance

   Roughly eight-in-ten Americans say transgender people face at least
   some discrimination, and relatively few believe our society is
   extremely or very accepting of people who are trans. These views differ
   widely by partisanship and by beliefs about whether someone’s gender
   can differ from the sex they were assigned at birth.

   Overall, 57% of adults say there is a great deal or a fair amount of
   discrimination against transgender people in our society today. An
   additional 21% say there is some discrimination against trans people,
   and 14% say there is a little or none at all.

   There are modest differences in views on this issue across demographic
   groups. Women (62%) are more likely than men (52%) to say there is a
   great deal or a fair amount of discrimination against transgender
   people, and college graduates (62%) are more likely than those with
   less education (55%) to say the same.
   Chart showing Most Americans say there is at least some discrimination
   against trans people in the U.S.

   There is, however, a wide partisan divide in these views: While 76% of
   Democrats and those who lean to the Democratic Party say there is a
   great deal or a fair amount of discrimination against trans people, 35%
   of Republicans and Republican leaners share that assessment.
   One-in-four Republicans see little or no discrimination against this
   group, compared with 5% of Democrats.

   These views are also linked with underlying opinions about whether a
   person’s gender can be different from their sex assigned at birth.
   Among those who say someone can be a man or a woman even if that’s
   different from the sex they were assigned at birth, 83% say there is a
   great deal or a fair amount of discrimination against trans people.
   Even so, some 42% of those who hold the alternative point of view –
   that gender is determined by sex assigned at birth – also see at least
   a fair amount of discrimination. Among Democrats who say gender is
   determined by sex at birth, that share rises to 61%.

   Relatively few adults (14%) say society is extremely or very accepting,
   while about a third (35%) say it is somewhat accepting. A plurality
   (44%) says our society is a little or not at all accepting of trans
   people.
   Chart showing Plurality of Americans say there is little or no societal
   acceptance of transgender people

   Again, these views are strongly linked with partisanship. Democrats
   have a much more negative view than Republicans, with 54% of Democrats
   saying society is a little accepting or not at all accepting of
   transgender people, compared with a third of Republicans.

   And, as with views of discrimination, assessments of societal
   acceptance are linked to underlying views about how gender is
   determined. Those who say one’s gender can be different from the sex
   they were assigned at birth see less acceptance: 56% say society is a
   little accepting or not accepting at all of people who are transgender.
   This compares with 37% among those who say gender is determined by sex
   at birth. Republicans who say gender is determined by sex at birth are
   more likely than Democrats who say the same to believe that society is
   at least somewhat accepting of people who are transgender (61% vs.
   47%).

About four-in-ten say society has gone too far in accepting trans people

   While a majority of Americans see at least a fair amount of
   discrimination against transgender people and relatively few see
   widespread acceptance, 38% say our society has gone too far in
   accepting them. Some 36% say society has not gone far enough in
   accepting people who are trans, and 23% say the level of acceptance has
   been about right.

   These views differ along demographic and partisan lines. Young adults
   (ages 18 to 29) and those with a bachelor’s degree or more education
   are among the most likely to say society hasn’t gone far enough in
   accepting people who are trans. Men, White adults and those without a
   four-year college degree are among the most likely to say society has
   gone too far in this regard.
   Chart showing Public is divided over whether society has gone too far
   or not far enough in accepting transgender people

   There is a wide partisan divide as well. Roughly six-in-ten Democrats
   (59%) say society hasn’t gone far enough in accepting people who are
   transgender, while 15% say it has gone too far (24% say it’s been about
   right). Republicans’ views are almost the inverse: 10% say society
   hasn’t gone far enough and 66% say it’s gone too far (22% say it’s been
   about right).

   Even among those who see at least some discrimination against trans
   people, a majority (54%) say society has either gone too far in
   accepting trans people or been about right; 44% say society hasn’t gone
   far enough.

Many say it’s important to use someone’s new name, pronouns when they’ve gone
through a gender transition

   Nearly half of adults say it’s important to use someone’s new name if
   they change their name as part of a gender transition

   Nearly half of adults (47%) say it’s extremely or very important that
   if a person who transitions to a gender that’s different from their sex
   assigned at birth changes their name, others refer to them by their new
   name. An additional 22% say this is somewhat important. Three-in-ten
   say this is a little or not at all important (18%) or that it shouldn’t
   be done (12%).

   Smaller shares say that if a person transitions to a gender that’s
   different from their sex assigned at birth and starts going by
   different pronouns (such as “she” instead of “he”), it’s important that
   others refer to them by their new pronouns. About a third (34%) say
   this is extremely or very important, and 21% say this is somewhat
   important. More than four-in-ten say this is a little or not at all
   important (26%) or it should not be done (18%).

   These views differ along many of the same dimensions as other topics
   asked about. While 80% of those who believe someone’s gender can be
   different from their sex assigned at birth also say it’s extremely or
   very important to use a person’s new name when they’ve gone through a
   gender transition, 27% of those who think gender is determined by one’s
   sex assigned at birth share this opinion. The pattern is similar when
   it comes to use of preferred pronouns.

   Democrats are much more likely than Republicans to say it’s extremely
   or very important to refer to a person using their new name or
   pronouns. When it comes to pronouns, a majority of Republicans (55%),
   compared with only 17% of Democrats, say using someone’s new pronouns
   when they’ve been through a gender transition is not at all important
   or should not be done.
   Chart showing People who know a trans person place more importance on
   using a person’s new name, pronouns if they transition

   There are some demographic differences as well, with women more likely
   than men and those with a four-year college degree more likely than
   those with less education to say it’s extremely or very important to
   use a person’s new name or pronouns when referring to them.

   In addition, people who say they know someone who is trans are more
   likely than those who do not to say this is extremely or very
   important. Even so, substantial shares of those who don’t know a trans
   person view this as important. For example, 39% of those who don’t know
   someone who is transgender say it’s extremely or very important to
   refer to a person who goes through a gender transition and changes
   their name by their new name.

Plurality of adults say views on gender identity issues are changing too
quickly

   Many Americans are not comfortable with the pace of change that’s
   occurring around issues involving gender identity. Some 43% say views
   on issues related to people who are transgender and nonbinary are
   changing too quickly. About one-in-four (26%) say things are not
   changing quickly enough, and 28% say they are changing at about the
   right speed.

   Women (30%) are more likely than men (21%) to say views on these issues
   are not changing quickly enough, and adults younger than 30 are more
   likely than their older counterparts to say the same. Among those ages
   18 to 29, 37% say views on these issues are not changing quickly
   enough; this compares with 26% of those ages 30 to 49, 22% of those
   ages 50 to 64 and 19% of those 65 and older. At the same time, White
   adults (46%) are more likely than Black (34%), Hispanic (39%) or Asian
   (31%) adults to say views are changing too quickly.
   Chart showing More than four-in-ten Americans say societal views on
   gender identity are changing too quickly

   Opinions also differ sharply by partisanship. Among Democrats, a
   plurality (42%) say views on issues involving transgender and nonbinary
   people are not changing fast enough, and 21% say they are changing too
   quickly. About a third (35%) say the speed is about right. By contrast,
   70% of Republicans say views on these issues are changing too quickly,
   while only 7% say views aren’t changing fast enough. About one-in-five
   Republicans (21%) say they’re changing at about the right speed.

   Respondents were asked in an open-ended format why they think views are
   changing too quickly or not quickly enough, when it comes to issues
   surrounding transgender and nonbinary people. For those who say things
   are changing too quickly, responses fell into several different
   categories. Some indicated that new ways of thinking about gender were
   inconsistent with their religious beliefs. Others expressed concern
   that the long-term consequences of medical gender transitions are not
   well-known, or that changing views on gender identity are merely a fad
   that’s being pushed by the media. Still others said they worry that
   there’s too much discussion of these issues in schools these days.

   For those who say views are not changing quickly enough, some pointed
   to discrimination and a lack of acceptance of trans and nonbinary
   people. Others pointed to legislative initiatives in some states aimed
   at restricting the rights of trans and nonbinary people. Many also said
   that too many people in our society aren’t open to change when it comes
   to these issues.^2

In their own words: Why do some people think views on issues related to
transgender people and those who don’t identify as a man or a woman are
changing too quickly?

   General concerns about the pace of change

   “The issue is so new to me I can’t keep up. I don’t know what to think
   about all of this new information. I’m baffled by so many changes.”

   “It takes quite a bit of time for society to accept changes. I have not
   been aware of this issue for very long. I am relatively conservative
   and feel that changes need time to be accepted.”

   Religious reasons

   “People now believe everyone should just forget about their birth
   identity and just go along with what they think they are. God made us
   all for a reason and if He intended us to pick our gender then there
   would be no reason to be born with specific male or female parts.”

   “I have a personal religious belief that sex is an essential part of
   our eternal identity and that identifying as something other than you
   are … just doesn’t make a lot of sense.”

   “I believe GOD created a man and a woman. We have overstepped our
   bounds in messing with the miracle of life. I side with my creator.”

   Concerns about long-term medical consequences

   “We do not know the long-term health problems of hormone therapy,
   especially in young children.”

   “More time needs to pass to study mental, physical, emotional
   ramifications of medications & surgeries, especially when done before
   puberty and/or adulthood.”

   “Accepting gender fluidity, especially for younger children, seems
   quick. Also, medical treatments related to gender for people under 18
   seems to be being accepted without longer term studies.”

   It’s a fad/Driven by the media

   “I respect people’s views about themselves, and I will refer to them in
   the way they want to be referred to, but I believe it’s become trendy
   because it’s being pushed so much in culture, especially for children.”

   “News media, social media and entertainment media companies are trying
   to change, and it seems they have been succeeding in changing public
   opinion on this issue for many people.”

   “It is encouraging kids who are easily influenced to participate in the
   ‘in’ fad when their brains are not fully developed.”

   Concerns about schools

   “Elementary school students should not be subjected to instruction on
   sex identity, any questions the child asks should be referred to a
   parent.”

   “I think that young people are exposed to these issues at too early an
   age. I believe that it is up to the parents, and I oppose schools that
   want to include it in the ‘curriculum.’”

   “It’s being pushed on society and especially on younger children,
   confusing them all the more. This is not something that should be
   taught in schools.”

In their own words: Why do some people think views on issues related to
transgender people and those who don’t identify as a man or a woman are
changing too slowly?

   Discrimination

   “There is far too much discrimination, hate, and violence directed
   toward people who are brave enough to stand up for who they truly are.
   We, as a country and as a society, need to respect how people want to
   identify themselves and be kind toward one another, end of story.”

   “Protections for basic rights to self-determination in identity, health
   care choices, privacy, and consensual relationships should be a bare
   minimum that our society can provide for everyone – transgender people
   included.”

   “There’s too much discrimination. People need to quit controlling other
   people’s private lives. I consider them very brave for having the
   courage to be who they identify with.”

   “Equal protection has not kept up with trans issues, including trans
   youth and the right to gender-affirming care.”

   Legislative efforts

   “Acceptance is not changing quick enough. There remains discrimination
   and elected officials are passing laws that make it more difficult for
   transgender individuals in society to live, work and exist.”

   “We are going backwards with all the anti-gay & -trans legislation that
   is being passed.”

   “For every step forward, it feels like there are two steps back with
   reactive conservative laws.”

   “These laws are working to restrict the rights of trans and nonbinary
   people, and also discrimination is still very high which results in
   elevated rates of suicide, poverty, violence and homelessness
   especially for people of color.”

   “The spate of laws being proposed that would take away the rights of
   transgender people is evidence that we’re a long way from treating them
   right.”

   Society is not open to change

   “Too many people are simply stuck in the binary. We, as a society, need
   to just accept that someone else’s gender identity is whatever they say
   it is and it rarely has any bearing on the lives of others.”

   “These are people. Who they say they are is all that matters. Society,
   mostly conservatives, doesn’t understand change in any form. So, they
   fight it. And they hinder the ability for others to learn about
   themselves and others, which slows growing as a society to a crawl.”

   “It’s an issue that has been in the closet for centuries. It’s time to
   acknowledge and accept that gender identity is a spectrum and not
   binary.”

   “We are not accepting the changes. We refuse to see what is in front of
   us. We care too much about not changing the status quo as we know it.”

   “Society often views this as a phase or a period of uncertainty in
   their life. Instead, it’s about a person bringing their gender identity
   in line with what they have experienced internally all their life.”

Most say they’re not paying close attention to news about bills related to
transgender people

   Chart showing Liberal Democrats are more likely than other groups to be
   following news about bills related to trans people closely

   Many states are considering legislation related to people who are
   transgender, but a relatively small share of U.S. adults (8%) say
   they’re following news about these bills extremely or very closely.
   Another 24% say they’re following this somewhat closely, while about
   two-thirds say they’re following it either a little closely (23%) or
   not all closely (44%).^3

   Only about one-in-ten or less across age, racial and ethnic groups, and
   across levels of educational attainment, say they are following news
   about bills related to people who are transgender extremely or very
   closely. Six-in-ten or more across demographic groups say they’re
   following news about these bills a little closely or not closely at
   all.

   Liberal Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents (46%) are more
   likely than moderate and conservative Democrats (29%) to say they are
   following news about state bills related to people who are transgender
   at least somewhat closely. Conservative Republicans and Republican
   leaners (31%) are more likely than their moderate and liberal
   counterparts (24%) – but less likely than liberal Democrats – to be
   following news about these bills at least somewhat closely. Still, half
   or more among each of these groups say they have been following news
   about this a little or not at all closely.

About six-in-ten would favor requiring that transgender athletes compete on
teams that match their sex at birth

   The survey asked respondents how they feel about some current laws and
   policies that are either in place or being considered across the U.S.
   related to transgender issues. Only two of seven items are either
   endorsed or rejected by a majority: 64% say they would favor policies
   that protect transgender individuals from discrimination in jobs,
   housing, and public spaces such as restaurants and stores, and 58% say
   they would favor policies that require that transgender athletes
   compete on teams that match the sex they were assigned at birth rather
   than the gender they identify with.
   Chart showing Most Americans say they would favor laws that would
   protect transgender people from discrimination in jobs, housing and
   public spaces

   Even though there is not a majority consensus on most of these laws or
   policies, there are gaps of at least 10 percentage points on three
   items. Some 46% say they would favor making it illegal for health care
   professionals to provide someone younger than 18 with medical care for
   gender transitions, and 41% would favor requiring transgender
   individuals to use public bathrooms that match the sex they were
   assigned at birth rather than the gender they identify with; 31% say
   they would oppose each of these. Meanwhile, more say they
   would oppose (44%) than say they would favor (27%) requiring health
   insurance companies to cover medical care for gender transitions.

   Views are more divided when it comes to laws and policies that would
   make it illegal for public school districts to teach about gender
   identity in elementary schools (41% favor and 38% oppose) or that would
   investigate parents for child abuse if they helped someone younger than
   18 get medical care for a gender transition (37% favor and 36% oppose).
   Some 21% and 27%, respectively, say they’d neither favor nor oppose
   these policies.

Views on many policies related to transgender issues vary by age, party, and
race and ethnicity

   Majorities of U.S. adults across age groups express support for laws
   and policies that would protect transgender individuals from
   discrimination in jobs, housing, and public spaces such as restaurants
   and stores. About seven-in-ten adults ages 18 to 29 (70%) and 30 to 49
   (68%) say they favor such protections, as do about six-in-ten adults
   ages 50 to 64 (60%) and 65 and older (59%).

   But adults younger than 30 are more likely than those in each of the
   older age groups to say they favor laws or policies that would require
   health insurance companies to cover medical care for gender transitions
   (37% among those younger than 30 vs. about a quarter among each of the
   older age groups). They’re also less likely than older adults to
   express support for bills and policies that would restrict the rights
   of people who are transgender or limit what schools teach about gender
   identity. On most items, those ages 50 to 64 and those 65 and older
   express similar views.
   Chart showing Views of laws and policies related to transgender issues
   differ by age

   Views differ even more widely along party lines. For example,
   eight-in-ten Democrats say they favor laws or policies that would
   protect trans individuals from discrimination, compared with 48% of
   Republicans. Conversely, by margins of about 40 percentage points or
   more, Republicans are more likely than Democrats to express support for
   laws or policies that would do each of the following: require trans
   athletes to compete on teams that match the sex they were assigned at
   birth (85% of Republicans vs. 37% of Democrats favor); make it illegal
   for health care professionals to provide someone younger than 18 with
   medical care for a gender transition (72% vs. 26%); make it illegal for
   public school districts to teach about gender identity in elementary
   schools (69% vs. 18%); require transgender individuals to use public
   bathrooms that match the sex they were assigned at birth (67% vs. 20%);
   and investigate parents for child abuse if they help someone younger
   than 18 get medical care for a gender transition (59% vs. 17%).

   Overall, White adults tend to be more likely than Black, Hispanic and
   Asian adults to express support for laws and policies that would
   restrict the rights of transgender people or limit what schools can
   teach about gender identity. But among Democrats, White adults are
   often less likely than other groups to favor such laws and policies,
   particularly compared with their Black and Hispanic counterparts. And
   White Democrats are more likely than Black, Hispanic and Asian
   Democrats to say they favor protecting trans individuals from
   discrimination and requiring health insurance companies to cover
   medical care for gender transitions.

Sizable shares say forms and government documents should include options
other than ‘male’ and ‘female’

   Chart showing About four-in-ten or more say forms and government
   documents should offer options other than ‘male’ and ‘female’

   About four-in-ten Americans (38%) say government documents such as
   passports and driver’s licenses that ask about a person’s gender should
   include options other than “male” and “female” for people who don’t
   identify as either; a larger share (44%) say the same about forms and
   online profiles that ask about a person’s gender.

   Half of adults younger than 30 say government documents that ask about
   gender should include options other than “male” and “female,” compared
   with 39% of those ages 30 to 49, 35% of those 50 to 64 and 33% of
   adults 65 and older. When it comes to forms and online profiles, 54% of
   adults younger than 30 and 47% of those ages 30 to 49 say these forms
   should include more than two gender options; smaller shares of adults
   ages 50 to 64 and 65 and older (37% each) say the same.

   Views on this vary considerably by party. A majority of Democrats and
   Democratic-leaning independents say forms and online profiles (64%) and
   government documents (58%) that ask about a person’s gender should
   include options other than “male” and “female.” In contrast, about
   eight-in-ten or more Republicans and Republican leaners say forms and
   online profiles (79%) and government documents (83%) should not include
   more than these two gender options.

   Those who say they know someone who is nonbinary are more likely than
   those who don’t know anyone who’s nonbinary to say forms and government
   documents should include gender options other than “male” and “female.”
   Still, 39% of those who don’t know anyone who’s nonbinary say forms and
   online profiles shouldinclude other gender options, and 33% say the
   same about government documents that ask about a person’s gender.
   Conversely, 31% of those who say they know someone who’s nonbinary say
   forms and online profiles should not include options other than “male”
   and “female,” and 41% say this about government documents.

About three-in-ten parents of K-12 students say their children have learned
about people who are trans or nonbinary at school

   In recent months, lawmakers in several states have introduced
   legislation that would prohibit or limit instruction on sexual
   orientation or gender identity in schools. The survey asked parents of
   K-12 students whether any of their children have learned about people
   who are transgender or who don’t identify as a boy or a girl from a
   teacher or another adult at their school and how they feel about the
   fact that their children have or have not learned about this.

   Some 37% of parents with children in middle or high school say their
   middle or high schoolers have learned about people who are transgender
   or who don’t identify as a boy or a girl from a teacher or another
   adult at their school; a much smaller share of parents of elementary
   school students (16%) say the same. Overall, 29% of parents with
   children in elementary, middle or high school say at least one of their
   K-12 children have learned about this at school.

   Similar shares of parents of K-12 students in urban (31%), suburban
   (27%) and rural (32%) areas – and in the Northeast (34%), Midwest
   (33%), South (26%) and West (28%) – say their school-age children have
   learned about people who are transgender or who don’t identify as a boy
   or a girl. And Republican (27%) and Democratic (31%) parents are also
   about equally likely to say their children have learned about this in
   school. None of these differences are statistically significant.
   Chart showing Views on children learning about people who are trans or
   nonbinary at school differ by party, children’s age

   Many parents of K-12 students don’t think it’s good for their children
   to learn about people who are transgender or nonbinary from their
   teachers or other adults at school. Among parents of elementary school
   students, 45% either say their children have learned about people who
   are trans or nonbinary at school and see this is a bad thing or say
   their children have not learned about this and say this is
   a good thing. A far smaller share (13%) say it’s a good thing that
   their elementary school children have learned about people who are
   trans or nonbinary or that it’s a bad thing that they haven’t learned
   about this. And about four-in-ten (41%) say it’s neither good nor bad
   that their elementary school children have or haven’t learned about
   people who are transgender or nonbinary.

   Among parents with children in middle or high school, 34% say it’s a
   bad thing that their children have learned about people who are trans
   or nonbinary at school or that it’s a good thing that they haven’t; 14%
   say it’s good that their middle or high schoolers have learned about
   this or that it’s bad that they haven’t; and 51% say it’s neither good
   nor bad that their children have or haven’t learned about this in
   school.

   Republican and Republican-leaning parents with children in elementary,
   middle and high school are more likely than their Democratic and
   Democratic-leaning counterparts to say it’s a bad thing that their
   children have learned about people who are trans or nonbinary at school
   or that it’s a good thing that they haven’t. In turn, Democratic
   parents are more likely to say it’s good that their
   children have learned about this or bad that they haven’t. They are
   also more likely to say it’s neither good nor bad that their children
   have or haven’t learned about people who are trans or nonbinary at
   school.
   Next: Acknowledgments
   ← Prev Page
   You are reading page1Page2Page3
   Next Page →
    1. For each policy item, respondents were also given the option of
       answering “neither favor nor oppose.”  ↩
    2. Open-ended responses (quotations) have been lightly edited for
       clarity and length. ↩
    3. The shares who say they are following news about this a little or
       not at all closely do not add up to the combined share shown in the
       chart due to rounding.  ↩

   [weekly.svg]

Social Trends Monthly Newsletter

   Sign up to to receive a monthly digest of the Center's latest research
   on the attitudes and behaviors of Americans in key realms of daily life
   ____________________
   Sign Up

Report Materials

   Topline Questionnaire Complete Report PDF

Table of Contents

   Americans' Complex Views on Gender Identity and Transgender Issues
   A rising share say a person’s gender is determined by their sex at
   birthMany Americans point to science when asked what has influenced
   their views on whether gender can differ from sex assigned at
   birthPublic sees discrimination against trans people and limited
   acceptanceAbout four-in-ten say society has gone too far in accepting
   trans peoplePlurality of adults say views on gender identity issues are
   changing too quicklyMost say they’re not paying close attention to news
   about bills related to transgender people About six-in-ten would favor
   requiring that transgender athletes compete on teams that match their
   sex at birthViews on many policies related to transgender issues vary
   by age, party, and race and ethnicity Sizable shares say forms and
   government documents should include options other than ‘male’ and
   ‘female’About three-in-ten parents of K-12 students say their children
   have learned about people who are trans or nonbinary at school
   Acknowledgments Methodology

Related

   short read | Jun 28, 2022

Q&A: How and why we surveyed Americans about their views on gender identity

   short read | Jun 7, 2022

About 5% of young adults in the U.S. say their gender is different from their
sex assigned at birth

   report | Jun 7, 2022

The Experiences, Challenges and Hopes of Transgender and Nonbinary U.S.
Adults

   feature | Jun 2, 2022

What is the gender wage gap in your metropolitan area? Find out with our pay
gap calculator

   short read | Feb 11, 2022

Deep partisan divide on whether greater acceptance of transgender people is
good for society

Topics

   K-12ParenthoodGender IdentityDiscrimination & PrejudiceLGBTQ Acceptance

MOST POPULAR

   1
   More Americans are getting news on TikTok, bucking the trend seen on
   most other social media sites

   2
   Tipping Culture in America: Public Sees a Changed Landscape

   3
   Americans’ Trust in Scientists, Positive Views of Science Continue to
   Decline

   4
   Comparing Views of the U.S. and China in 24 Countries

   5
   Working husbands in U.S. have more leisure time than working wives do,
   especially among those with children

   Pew Research Center
   1615 L St. NW, Suite 800
   Washington, DC 20036
   USA
   (+1) 202-419-4300 | Main
   (+1) 202-857-8562 | Fax
   (+1) 202-419-4372 | Media Inquiries
   Research Topics
   Politics & PolicyInternational AffairsImmigration & MigrationRace &
   EthnicityReligionAge & GenerationsGender & LGBTQ
   Family & RelationshipsEconomy & WorkScienceInternet & TechnologyNews
   Habits & MediaMethodological ResearchFull topic list
   Follow Us
   Email Newsletters Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube RSS

   About Pew Research Center Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan fact
   tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends
   shaping the world. It conducts public opinion polling, demographic
   research, media content analysis and other empirical social science
   research. Pew Research Center does not take policy positions. It is a
   subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts.
   Copyright 2023 Pew Research Center About Terms & Conditions Privacy
   Policy Cookie Settings Reprints, Permissions & Use Policy Feedback
   Careers

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=MVFJNW
