

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-K3TH4CC

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TW6R675

   Skip To Main Content (BUTTON) Pause All Rotators Skip To Main Content

   NCAA Logo

   NCAA Logo NCAA Logo

Main Navigation Menu

   Overview History Mission and Priorities Governance Championships
   Outreach Finances Health and Safety/Sport Science Institute Inclusion
   Infractions Process Leadership Development Research Awards and Events
   Corporate Champions and Partners Membership Directory National
   Office/Hall of Champions National Office Team Employment Want to Play
   College Sports? Guide for the College-Bound Student-Athlete National
   Letter of Intent NCAA Eligibility Center Recruiting Your Journey
   Balance Your Schedule Name, Image, Likeness Sportsmanship Get Involved
   in the Process (SAAC) Want to Transfer? Preparing for Your Career
   Olympians Made Here Dear College Sports After the Game Home About Us
   Our Priorities Our Members Our Students Academics Championships
   Committees Compliance Finances Governance Infractions Process Outreach
   Recruiting Archived Stories Home About Us Our Priorities Our Members
   Our Students Academics Championships Committees Compliance Finances
   Governance Infractions Process Outreach Recruiting Archived Stories
   Home About Us Our Priorities Our Members Our Students Academics
   Championships Committees Compliance Finances Outreach Governance
   Infractions Process Recruiting Archived Stories Home News Features NCAA
   Social Series Digital and Social Media Media Inquiries NCAA.com NCAA
   Championships Media Center NCAA Championships Schedule NCAA
   Championships Future Sites NCAA Championships Digital Programs March
   Madness Statistics and Records Playing Rules Logo Library NCAA Brand
   Guidelines NCAA Licensing & Content Requests NCAA Publications
   Association-Wide Division I Division II Division III My Apps

Sport Navigation Menu

   Sport Science Institute COVID-19 Health and Safety Topics Programs Key
   Publications About the SSI

Transgender Student-Athlete Participation Policy

   Updated 4/17/2023 to provide increased clarity

   At its January 19, 2022 meeting, the NCAA Board of Governors updated
   the transgender student-athlete participation policy governing college
   sports.

   The new policy aligns transgender student-athlete participation with
   the Olympic Movement. The resulting sport-by-sport approach preserves
   opportunity for transgender student-athletes while balancing fairness,
   inclusion and safety for all who compete.

   Like the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Committee, the updated NCAA policy
   calls for transgender student-athlete participation for each sport to
   be determined by the policy for the national governing body of that
   sport. If there is no NGB policy for a sport, it would then be
   determined by the policy for that sport’s international federation. If
   there is no international federation policy, it would be determined
   by policy criteria previously established by the International Olympic
   Committee. Sport-specific polices are subject to ongoing review and
   recommendation by the NCAA Committee on Competitive Safeguards and
   Medical Aspects of Sports to the Board of Governors.

   The policy is effective immediately, with three phases of
   implementation.

Phase One – 2022 winter and spring championships

   For participation in 2022 winter and spring championships, transgender
   student-athletes were required to provide documentation to the CSMAS
   within four weeks before the selections date for their championship.

   The documentation had to demonstrate compliance with the 2010 NCAA
   policy, which calls for one year of testosterone suppression treatment.
   It also had to document a one-time serum testosterone level that fell
   below the maximum allowable level for the sport in which the
   student-athlete was competing within four weeks of championship
   selections for that sport. That means that student-athletes who already
   fulfilled the 2010 NCAA policy only needed provide one validated serum
   testosterone level.

   Transgender student-athletes who participated in regular season
   competition (including conference championships) remained subject to
   the 2010 NCAA policy only.

Phase Two – 2022-23 and 2023-24 regular season and championships

   Beginning Aug. 1, 2022, participation in NCAA sports requires
   transgender student-athletes to provide documentation that meets the
   above criteria for the 2010 NCAA policy, plus meet the sport standard
   for documented testosterone levels at three points in time: 1. Prior to
   any competition during the regular season; 2. Prior to the first
   competition in an NCAA championship event; and 3. Prior to any
   competition in the non-championship segment. See the transgender
   student-athlete eligibility review procedures for more information.

Phase Three – 2024-25 full implementation

   Beginning Aug. 1, 2024, participation in NCAA sports requires
   transgender student-athletes to provide documentation no less than
   twice annually (and at least once within four weeks of competition in
   NCAA championships) that meets the sport-specific standard (which may
   include testosterone levels, mitigation timelines and other aspects of
   sport-governing body policies) as reviewed and approved by CSMAS. More
   information about the specific application of Phase Three will be
   provided prior to implementation.

Additional flexibility

   The Board of Governors urged the divisions to allow for additional,
   future eligibility if a transgender student-athlete loses eligibility
   based on the policy change, provided they meet the newly adopted
   standards.

   The NCAA’s Office of Inclusion and Sport Science Institute also
   released the Gender Identity and Student-Athlete Participation Summit
   Final Report. The report assists ongoing membership efforts to support
   an inclusive environment that promotes and develops the mental and
   physical health of transgender and non-binary student-athletes in
   collegiate sport. The foundational principles in this report will be
   developed further in conjunction with the Committee to Promote Cultural
   Diversity and Equity, CSMAS and other core membership committees that
   address gender identity.

Transgender Student-Athlete Resources

     * Transgender Student-Athlete Eligibility Review Procedures
     * 2022-23 Spring Sport Testosterone Thresholds and Championship
       Submission Deadlines
     * 2023-24 Fall Sport Testosterone Thresholds and Championship
       Submission Deadlines
     * 2023-24 Winter Sport Testosterone Thresholds and Championship
       Submission Deadlines
     * 2023-24 Spring Sport Testosterone Thresholds and Championship
       Submission Deadlines
     * Clarifying Application and Next Steps
     * 2010 NCAA Transgender Participation Policy
     * NCAA Inclusion of Transgender Student-Athletes Handbook
     * Gender Identity and Student-Athlete Participation Summit Final
       Report
     * Medical Exceptions Procedures and Form

   NCAA Logo
     *
     *
     *
     *

   © 2023 NCAA All Rights Reserved
   NCAA Terms of Service
   |
   Privacy Policy

     * Terms of Service, opens in new window
     * Privacy Policy, opens in new window
     * Accessibility
     * Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information

   Site logo
   Ad Blocker Detected

   Thanks for visiting !

   The use of software that blocks ads hinders our ability to serve you
   the content you came here to enjoy.

   We ask that you consider turning off your ad blocker so we can deliver
   you the best experience possible while you are here.

   Thank you for your support!
   Learn More About Ad Blockers
   (BUTTON) Close
